YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to the
channel. Today I officially announce and
release my updated ultimate windows
optimization guide. We did a video about
it a year ago, but I'm going to leave
that up because today we're going to
cover over the Ultimate and everything,
but only more on a surface level. There
might be some details in here might be
useful for you guys to go back to. We
have now renamed it to Ultimate. And
what can ultimate do for you guys? So,
you're probably a little confused
because you're like, Chris, you just
brought out Winds. What's the difference
between Windox and Ultimate? Well,
Windsucks is just like a one-click
solution only for the Windows stuff.
Ultimate does a whole lot more. Ultimate
will show you how to update your BIOS,
factory reset Windows, reinstall
Windows, apply the basic BIOS
optimizations to get good performance,
how to stress test and solve stability
issues, make sure everything's okay, how
to set up Windows nicely with full
control, the bloat options and complete
revert options. There's a bunch of nice
installers there, silent installs, and
just basically anything that you can
think of I have crammed into the
ultimate to give you full choice and
control and how you want to set up
Windows with revert options to make your
life easier. So, just to let you guys
know, if any of my Windsucks users are
considering using ultimate, please do.
There's a lots of good stuff in there,
like revert options for things that you
don't like that were applied in Windox.
Also, options for installers, a whole
bunch of other goodies in there. Let's
get started with it. We'll go to the
Ultimate guide, guys. You got to go to
my GitHub to do this. I am on a complete
fresh install of Windows Factory Home,
and I've completely reset my BIOS
settings so we can walk through
everything together with you guys. Now,
here is the main page of Ultimate. Let's
go over some things. It's a Windows
guide for power users. Multiple scripts
with revert options, and a lot of
scripts need a reboot. the scripts to
apply. You guys really need to pay
attention to this one cuz if you applied
some scripts, you really need to reboot
for a lot of them to apply. You can
apply a whole bunch at once and then
restart if you want to be lazy like me.
But just letting you know, if you just
do one and expect everything to change
straight away, it won't. Sometimes you
need to reboot. I have gone out of my
way just like with Windox to make sure
there is full support and full patch for
Windows 10, Homeman Pro, LTSC, IoT, and
Server. you will require online access
to use a lot of these scripts how the
way I've set things up. And because a
lot of people didn't watch my full video
last time, I'm going to give you guys a
big warning. If you are playing around
with things in the advanced pack, it is
for advanced users. Be cautious. Okay,
this folder is for advanced users that
know what they're doing. There are two
ways to get the ultimate pack. One of
them is to go code and download zip.
That's the first way we can do it. May
take a little while for Defender to scan
the files. I'd recommend opening your
download, right clicking here, going
extract all, press extract, then drag
this folder straight to the desktop
simply so it sorts everything in
alphabetical order for you. If you're
going to apply the pack this way, open
it up. You guys will need to run allow
scripts first. Otherwise, you won't be
able to run any of these scripts. So, to
do it this way, double click on allow
scripts. You'll get this. Click run. You
get this. Click run and then press yes
for administrator prompt. What this
script is going to do is unblock all the
files in here and also allow you to run
scripts on your machine. So you would
press one on the keyboard and then
enter. Just say enable PowerShell
scripts and unblock files. So then we
can get started with it. That's one way
to do that. I've made a much easier way
to do it rather than doing it that way.
Instead of having to download it and
then run allow scripts, I made an IWR
that's rule that will automatically
download the files and unblock the files
and allow you to run scripts all at
once. So to do it that way, you will
probably need to go in your search bar
and search scripts just so it lets you
apply PowerShell scripts in the first
place. So you can run the IWR. When
you're here, turn this on. Go here,
press this to copy, search PowerShell in
your address bar. Right click and make
sure you run PowerShell as
administrator. Press yes for the UAC
prompt. You should see a PowerShell
window and it should say administrator
PowerShell window. If it doesn't say
administrator, this won't work. Crl +V
or rightclick to paste the codes there
and press enter. This is going to allow
scripts, unblock the files, download the
folders, and extract the files for you.
It will save you a lot of time. Press
continue. What it's done here is just
downloaded the pack simply to your
desktop and already extracted it. It
saves a lot of time. You do not need to
run all scripts with this one. Saves a
bit of time. Let's start with check
folder. Let's open check folder. Check
folder. Now, there are two ways you can
run these PowerShell script. Right click
and run with PowerShell. Now, that's
kind of super annoying. I would rather
double click. So to allow the double
click option which I have allowed with
my cmd script or the IWR script, right
click the file, go show more options, go
open with click powershell and then
click always. Now it will give us the
option to double click. We will see the
icons change here. Let's start with
space check. When it comes to SSDs or
NVMEs, you always want to keep at least
10% free. Now Windows will tell you
this. If you fill up your NVME or SSD
drive or any drive up until the red,
that's generally a sign that you need to
free some space. If you don't keep at
least 10% free on SSDs, you will lose
read and write speeds and you can lose
performance. Make sure you always keep
about 10% free on everything if
possible. Next one is RAM check. We want
to open this and then press yes for the
admin. It'll download CPUZ for us and it
will give us some information. We want
to make sure that in BIOS our XMPP, DOCP
or XO profile is enabled. What is this?
If you go to SPD tab, you will see
either XMPP or expo here. That is the
official RAM profile and that is
actually not enabled by default. Your
RAM is in a sleep space state by
default. So I would recommend going to
memory here and check what it's at.
You're going to actually need to double
this number here to see what the number
is at. If you're not sure about doubling
the number, you could always check in
task manager. We are only at 63 uh 3600
mega transfers. So we do not have at
least on my RAM kit the expo profile
enabled. This is one of the most
important things you want to get enabled
in BIOS. Very very important. So, we're
going to have to make sure we go in bias
and we'll do that. You also want to make
sure that the RAM is in the correct
slots. So, to check that, I want you to
go to SPD. If you only have two sticks,
you want them in slot two and slot four.
If you have one stick, that can
completely depend on the board. And if
you have four sticks like I do, that
actually doesn't matter. I'm going to
get up my motherboard manual just to
show you guys. This can be fairly
important because some of you might have
issues running your XMP or Expo profile
and that could be because your RAM are
in the wrong slots. You also want to
make sure there is no mismatch in RAM
module. Mismatching RAM is a big no no,
especially when you start to enable XMPP
or Expo profiles because there if
mismatched, you're potentially
overclocking one that won't be able to
handle it. So, just quickly go through
here. We check the part number right
here. Part numbers the same, part
numbers are the same. Part numbers the
same. Partners are the same. That's
fine. And you want at least two RAM
sticks, which is dual channel for decent
performance on most modern PCs. Running
single channel, just one stick is not
ideal. I'm going to go to my BIOS web
page just to show you guys how important
it is to have the the sticks in the
correct place. Now, when it comes to a
single stick of RAM, it can depend on
the board. So, look up the manual. At
least on my board, it's saying it should
be in B2 if I was running a single stick
of RAM. So, what they mean by A1, A2,
B1, B2 would be A1, A2, B1, B2. Right?
That's the layout of it. Now, if you run
two sticks, you want to make sure you're
running in A2 and B2, which is slot two
and slot four. This is really important
because you you actually don't put it in
the right slots. A lot of the time
you'll have stability issues with your
XMPP or Expo profile or you won't be
able to boot at all and four DIMs is
just pretty obvious. So always check
your motherboard manual to make sure
everything is all good. Let's close
these and we'll move on to the next one.
GPU check. We want to check the P. You
can press no here. We want to check the
PCIe bus interface is at maximum. What
do I mean by that? So GPUZ will help us
with that one if it wants to open up on
the left here. Right here it says we can
do 16 times 16 lanes and five. We need
to make sure we're at 16 and five. Now
this one here can go in a sleep state
which is pretty normal. So, sometimes
you actually need to get the card loaded
up. This is a little bit annoying. It
wants me to install either a C++ package
or direct text to get the card loaded
up. Most of you probably won't have that
issue, but I've obviously just gone in
and installed those. Start the render
test. See how we can do 16 and five and
we are at 16 and 5 and that is good.
Just to let you guys know, some of you
might only have a PCI Express 4 card or
a PCI Express card. This is what you can
do and this is what you're at. Now, if
you are, it says you can do 16 and five
as an example, and you're only at 8 and
five. That is a problem. You'll lose a
little bit of performance. You might
want to check something on your
motherboard manual. The two things I
usually see people get wrong with that
with not being able to utilize the full
16 lanes is you either don't have your
graphics card in the top slot. You want
to make sure you've always got your
graphics card in the top slot. So, you
can usually use all the lanes. Some
boards will let you use other slots, but
usually top slots the safest bet. Um,
and most boards, if you go to tech
specs, you don't necessarily have to go
to the manual. It'll tell you something
here. So, as example, if I use the M22
or the M23 slot, my graphics card will
only be in eight times mode. So, those
are just some things for you guys to
look at to make sure you're in at 16
times. It's also quite possible if you
haven't updated your bias, there might
be a bug. If it says you can do five and
you're not getting five, that could be a
thing as well, or you could have
something wrong with the board. Usually,
it's just the graphics card isn't in the
right slot and you've got one of those
funky boards that doesn't like you using
a certain slot on the board for an NVME
drive. So, check out your manual for
that. Now, running multiple graphics
cards is not recommended. SLI is kind of
a thing of the past, and games aren't
optimized for that anymore, or they
never kind of really were, to be honest
with you. So, just stick with a single
really good card. If you're trying to
run SLI or anything like that, just
don't even bother. Just run a single
card. Let's do BIOS updates. So, this
will actually grab your board info and
take you directly to Google. Um, and you
can actually the first thing that should
come up is your actual board. So, I'm
going to update my BIOS with you guys.
I'm going to go to support. Usually most
web pages are the same uh between
boards. They have the same sort of like
layout. We want to go to support. We
want to go to BIOS. Now we'll grab the
latest version, but we want to make sure
it's not a beta. Please do not install a
beta. Don't be their testing dummy.
Install anything other than a beta. So I
see there is 4.1.0 at the moment. So
we'll go ahead and we will download
that. I'll click global. Every
motherboard manual is going to look a
little different. And then we'll open
that up. We'll actually need to extract
this. So we'll right click and go
extract all and extract. Okay. And then
this file we're actually going to have
to put on a USB stick. Now, some boards
will let you read the BIOS file off a
drive. So, you could actually like drag
it to like the C drive or the D drive.
That doesn't always work. So, if you
want to make sure it's definitely going
to work. I would recommend an 8 gig or a
16 gig USB stick. So, I'm just going to
simply drag it here to the USB stick and
then we can do the BIOS update. The BIOS
on our USB stick. Next one is BIOS
settings. So, open this up. We'll press
yes. Okay. This is going to cover most
of you for the basic BIOS settings to
get good performance out of the box. If
you have an Intel CPU, make sure you
enable the RAM profile. We've already
talked about that. Disable Cstates on
Intel if you are on a K chip. All right?
To stop the CPU from downclocking. This
is fairly important. If you don't have a
K chip, please don't disable Cates. You
will be locked on non-turbo boost. This
only applies to K chips. That's why it
says K chips only. You want to make sure
enable resizable bar on or rebar or cam.
Some boards call it something different.
and disable iGPU if possible. Some Intel
boards actually won't let you disable
iGPU, which is a little bit annoying,
but we can manage that. So, I have a
custom stream block Windows from
downloading drivers, so it won't
randomly download the Intel driver on
you for the iGPU. I've got you covered
there. Don't worry, guys. Now, with an
AMD CPU, you want to enable the RAM
profile XMP DSP Expo, whatever it's
called on your board. We we want to
enable precision boost overdrive PBO.
PBO is sort of like an auto overclock
feature on the board, which like remove
some power limits. It's a nice setting.
Enable that. We want to make sure, same
thing again, enable resizable bar, rebar
or cam. Another one I found on AMD CPUs,
you want to disable IO MMU. Go and find
that option. It is a bit of a CPU hog on
some boards. Some boards will be enabled
by default, even though it says auto.
Now, if you play Face It, unfortunately,
you're going to need that on. Okay, so
if you play Face It, don't touch this
one. Um, you actually might need to
force it on if you play Face It, believe
it or not. But if you're not playing
Face It, Counter Strike 2, please
disable it. And then most AMD boards
actually let you disable the iGPU, which
is nice. Um, ideally set the pump uh and
max max the pump speed and set fans to
performance and bias if you can. And a
lot of boards have a auto install driver
installer software feature which
installs a whole bunch of bloat on your
machine. So on ASUS boards it's called
ASUS Armory Crate. I believe they have
renamed that and it's called something
different. It's in the tool option on
your board. Um MSI boards it's called
MSI driver utility. Make sure you turn
that off. Gigabyte they call it Gigabyte
update utility and ASRock they call it
ASRock motherboard utility. If you guys
don't disable this in BIOS, you will
keep having the software coming back
trying to reinstall. And a lot of this
software will install rubbish. As an
example, Asus Armory Crate absolute hog
on your performance. It will install a
whole bunch of rubbish in Task Manager
and constantly log your GPU and CPU. Uh,
and it will just completely bloat up
everything and slow things down. So, we
have to make sure those are off. So, go
to BIOS. I've made things quite easy for
you guys. If you press enter here, it'll
take you directly to BIOS to save some
time. So, we'll go into BIOS and we'll
look at enabling these. I'm in BIOS.
Now, every board is going to look a
little different, unfortunately.
Sometimes you'll have an easy mode and
an advanced mode, so look for that.
Sometimes it's easier to navigate in the
advanced mode, right? I usually work
with the advanced mode. For me, to
update my bias, I actually have to go to
tool and then instant flash. Every
board's going to be a little bit
different. So, I'm going to go to
instant flash and then press yes to
continue. And then it's already picked
up my USB stick and the BIOS update. So,
I'm going to press update here and then
press yes. Make sure you do not unplug
the power while this is happening.
Otherwise, you can completely corrupt
it. And if you don't have a USB flash
pack to flash your BIOS with a USB
stick, you're completely screwed. Most
modern boards have a USB flashback
nowadays, but if your board does not
have that, make sure that you're not
going to do a BIOS update when there's
going to be a power outage or you're
going to go and unplug the power. That
would be a nightmare. It's generally
really important that you guys look at
updating your BIOS, especially if your
board has been on first release. First
release BIOSes, especially on AMD, are
incredibly buggy and can cause stability
issues. So ideally, my recommendation is
when you get the system up and running,
update to the latest non-BA version and
then just do your settings and call it a
day. Don't worry about updating again in
the future, unless you're having
stability issues or you need to upgrade
to a CPU and you need that BIOS update
for that CPU support. Uh if it's working
fine, just leave it. But generally,
first release BIOSes are buggy, so do
look at updating. As you can see here,
we have the auto driver installer trying
to get us here uh to install it blow. We
obviously don't want that. So, if um you
ended up going straight back to Windows
after doing the BIOS update, what you
can simply do is you can either go back
to here and we can go back to the BIOS
settings or you can restart the PC and
on your keyboard spam the de key, the
delete key, or the F2 key. There's two
ways you can go and do that. So, I'm
just going to do it with a shortcut here
and press enter. Sometimes it might bug
out. That's just how Windows is with a
command to take you to BIOS. So, I'm
going to do it again. And there we go.
Now, we're back in BIOS and we're fully
updated. If you're on an Intel CPU,
enable the RAM profile. Disable C states
K chips only. Enable resize bar. Disable
iGPU on the AMD CPU, which I'm on an AMD
CPU here. You need to enable the RAM
profile. So, we'll go and do that. My
board layout is a little weird. Usually,
you can see it here in the main page
here, but because my board's a little
weird, I actually have to go into DM
profile profile settings and enable the
Expo profile. Next, for me, on my AMD
board, I want to enable precision boost
overdrive. If you can't find some of
these settings, some boards actually
have a search function, so you could
search in here. For me, on my board, I
know it's in advanced AMD overclocking
except precision boost over. I'm just
going to set it to enabled. And for my
board, resizable bar, it's actually in
advanced PCI configuration. I have to go
in here and make sure it's enabled. Most
modern boards will turn this on by
default, which is great, but I have seen
some boards not turn this on. If you
don't see the option, sometimes you
actually might need to enable above 4G
decoding first. So, get that option and
just make sure it's on. I am not playing
face it, so I'll be disabling MMU. You
usually on AMD boards, it's an AMD CBSO.
I'm going to disable this. If you're not
playing face it, I really highly
recommend disabling this because some
rewards auto is actually enabled and
you're going to lose CPU performance.
Once again, make sure this is enabled if
you are planning on playing
Counter-Strike face it. Now, a little
different for me to disable my IGPU.
Unfortunately, I have to kind of go
here. It's a little weird. This disabled
iGPU configuration, IGPU disabled.
That's how I have to disable it on my
board. Next one is fans. To get to get
to the fans here, some of you guys might
have certain AIO's or fans that are
controlled through a hub that you need
software for. So, obviously that
wouldn't work in BIOS, but for me, I
have all BIOS controlled fans, and
that's the way I like it. I don't want
any software logging my stuff and
getting me to lose any frame. So, I'm
going to simply put in I don't like
performance mode. It's a little loud.
I'll just put everything here in in
standard mode here. Put my CPU in
standard mode. Everything else in
standard mode. It's just a quick
profile. You can dial in your own curve
if you like. For now, most of you either
look at standard mode or performance
mode. There'll be something like that.
Get the fan spinning up a little bit
more. Now, the next one on my board, it
is called auto driver installer. That's
the rubbish that's trying to install the
ASRock software bloatware stuff. Um, for
a lot of you, uh, it might be called
Asus Armory Crate, Gigabyte update
utility, MSI driver utility, Asus Armory
Crate, blah blah blah. Please find it
and turn it off. Otherwise, it's going
to keep prompting you and trying to
install that bloat. Now, an extra thing
a lot of you guys may need to do for
modern anti-che games nowadays, you'll
have to have secure boot on. So secure
boot is in a different area depending on
the board. Some of you it might be under
boot. For me it's under security. Go to
secure boot. Now most modern boards will
have this on by default. So you guys
won't have a problem. A lot of the board
manufacturers have got smart enough to
go okay. Most modern games require TPM
and secure boot will enable it by
default with the later update BIOS. Uh
for my board for some reason it is not.
So I'm going to have to go and set this
to enabled and set this to standard.
Okay. And I'm going to press yes. And I
don't want to restart yet. So, I'm going
to press no cuz if I restarted then I
would have lost my BIOS settings that
we've just tried to apply. So, if you're
on an MSI board, you may and you're
playing face it, you may need to set
this to strict mode or something called
that. If you're having a hard time with
face it or maybe some games that are
saying secure boot isn't on. And I've
even seen bugs with boards and games
that say secure boot's not on when it
is. So, if that happens, come back in
here, disable it, restart, come back in
here again, and then reenable it again.
That fixes it sometimes for people. The
next one you probably want to get
enabled for a lot of modern antiche
games is trusted computing. For me, it
is in here and lucky for me, it is
enabled by default. Uh, it is TPM 2.0.
That's the only one that you need. Um,
some boards are different, so I'm sorry,
guys. I can't show you every board. This
is all I've got right now. So, those are
the basic settings that I need to get
done on my board. Now, we're going to go
to exit. Going to go to save changes and
exit. Actually, there's another thing
you guys can do. Some boards have a
profile option, but you can go ahead and
save a profile just in case your bio
settings ever get reset. So, here's
where I could save my profile and load
my profile. The profile will be stuck
with the board until you update BIOS
nine times out of 10. So, just to let
you know, if you update BIOS, you're
going to have to redial your BIOS
settings in. So, you can save a profile.
I'm going to go to save changes and exit
and then press yes. Now, if you don't
get a boot here after a few minutes and
it hasn't memory trained and gone
through all that stuff, there could be a
couple of issues here and I will cover
those issues later. For now, if you
can't boot at all and you've already
waited a few minutes, look at clearing
the BIOS. Some of you guys may have a
clear SIMOS button on the back of your
board. Some of you may have to take out
the BIOS battery, drain power, put the
BIOS battery in, boot it back up so you
can figure out what's wrong. I will
cover the things that could be possibly
wrong on why you might not be able to
boot with those BIOS settings. Got a
clean boot here, which is nice. All
right, but back in. So, lucky for me, I
booted. I know some of you out there are
going to have issues and going to be
like, "Oh no, what has Chris done and I
can't boot? My PC is screwed now."
Unfortunately, when that happens, you
guys are going to have to look at doing
some diagnosing. go clear BIOS and come
back to this stage. All right. And find
out what's wrong. This stuff will come
with you with what's possibly wrong. So,
we're going to open up CPU test. Going
to download a simple program. I really
like simple programs that'll test things
fairly heavily and show you instantly if
something is wrong on sort of a surface
level. That's why I'm using Prime 95
here. Everyone has a different idea on
how to stress test things, and there are
much better options out there compared
to Prime 95. But Prime 95 is really
lightweight, and it can show if
something is wrong, blatantly wrong
fairly quickly. which is why I like to
use it. So, what I would recommend doing
is clicking just stress testing. Just
keep it with a blend and then press
okay. Now, it's going to start your CPU
usage will memory usage will spike to
100 here. That is completely normal. All
right. I recommend clicking window and
merge all workers. So, we can keep an
eye on here while it does the stress
test and make sure it doesn't throw any
errors because if we get any errors
here, we've either got something wrong
with the CPU config or the RAM config.
Right? And I cover all of that here. And
this is going to cover for you guys who
tried to do those BIOS settings and
couldn't boot. Here's what's going on.
So run a basic CPU stress test to check
for errors. Check temps, WHA errors in
hardware info during this test. In Prime
95, click window and select merge all
workers. We've just covered that. So now
would be a really good idea to open up
hardware info. I've got you covered for
that. So your PC may be a little bit
nonresponsive cuz we're running the CPU
stress test and the fans might be going
crazy. That's fairly normal. Let's go
open up hardware info. I'll show you
guys some things to look out for. Press.
Yeah, it'll download hardware info and
open it up for us. Okay. I recommend
just using sensors only mode cuz it's
just going to make life a little bit
easier. It's just an easier easier way
to just check everything. The normal
mode is a little bit too much
information. We'll go sensors only mode.
I don't need to check for updates.
Close. I'll bring this window over here
and I will drag this down. So, what we
want to check for, make sure the CP is
boosting. Okay. We want to make sure
that the RAM RAM profile is on. So,
you're going to have to kind of like
double this number to see the actual RAM
profile is. You could check for task a
task manager. So, we're in 6,000 mega
transfers. So, the RAM profile is loaded
and that I am running the timings of the
RAM profile. So, we're all good there.
Keeping a eye on temps. This stress test
will get the CPU running fairly hot. So,
please don't freak out there. Okay. Now,
I did say check for WHA errors. You can
check them in Windows, but hardware info
logs them in real time. So, we're doing
a stress test here. We can just check
them down here. Ideally, when you're
running running Prime, check for errors
in this window. Check for errors in this
window. I can't tell you how long to run
it. uh because some people would
recommend running this for 24 hours. But
I would there say if you could run this
for half an hour or so and you've got no
errors, you're probably fine um on at
least on a surface level. So let's go
back to the other things. So say you
guys couldn't boot with those BIOS
settings. Um well, first of all, before
I cover that, it's really important that
you get your system set up right. If you
have CPU or RAM errors, they shouldn't
be ignored as they can lead to corrupted
Windows, corrupted files, stutters and
hitches, poor performance, input lag,
shutdowns, and blue screens, right? And
that's not what you want. You'll see a
lot of like heavy overclockers go,
"Yeah, it's barely stable and I'm fine."
I would rather have a underclocked
stable system than an overclocked
unstable system because of all the
issues that you can get. Now, this is
going to kind of cover if you guys are
getting errors or if you weren't even
able to boot at all. Okay, so first of
all, is BIOS out of date update? That
can sometimes be a thing. All the bias
versions are buggy. Um, is bias bugged
out? Sometimes I've seen some boards
really buggy. If you clear some OS,
everything kind of comes right and you
reapply the settings again. Do you have
incompatible RAM with your board? Check
the QVL. The QVL isn't a be and all. If
you go to the motherboard manual um or
the motherboard uh manufacturing web
page, there's something called QVL and
it will show you RAM kits that they have
tested with that specific board and they
are guaranteed to work. And if they
don't work, that means there's something
wrong with someone of some of the
hardware. Uh but QVL is a good uh you
know thing to check ideally, but isn't
the be all and end all. Mismatch RAM,
we've talked about that. You don't want
to run mismatch RAM. Are there RAM in
the wrong slots? Check the manual. We've
already covered that. Do you have an
unlucky CPU memory controller? I mean,
that can sometimes be a thing. um mainly
not so much say on AMD with a 6,000 MHz
kit, but say if you have an Intel CPU
and you know you've got a really fast
kit like an 8,000 MHz kit, it's fairly
common that not a lot of the 13th and
14th gen CPUs can run 8,000 MHz and you
might have to downclock it all the way
to 7200 MHz. So that's a thing if you've
got a really high-end kit. There's
something called unlucky CPU memory
controller. Overclock. Do you have an
overclock uh on? If so, turn it off.
Dial it down. that could be causing
errors. Everything's running smoothly
here. We're not getting any errors. Um,
is your CPU cool overtightened? I've
personally experienced this many, many
years ago on um, one of my Intel
systems. If I overtighten the cooler too
much, um, I had issues with running the
RAM profile. Um, it just wasn't good
contact between the CPU and the CPU pins
on the board. Um, is your CPU
overheating? So, this could be a very
thing here. Maybe something wrong with
the cooler. Maybe something wrong with
your paste job. The cooler isn't in
properly. you know, it it could be
getting so hot to the point where it's
going to shut off um to protect itself.
Uh is your RAM overheating? Um that's a
thing, too, believe it or not. Now,
usually on DDR4 BI, you don't want to be
over 45°, but on typically most kits,
including DDR5, if you can stay under
55°, so some sticks actually have a um
sensor log on them. Some don't,
unfortunately. Right. So, that's just
general rule of thumb. It's not
typically one sizefits-all, but if you
can stay under 55° on most kits, you
should be fine. Um, and then, do you
have a faulty RAM stick? So, this is
going to be really common. This is one
of the most common ones, guys. If you're
like, Chris, I've done your BIOS
settings and I can't boot. I couldn't
boot at all. It could quite possibly be
that you have a faulty RAM stick. It's
one of the most common things that I've
seen. Brand new kit straight from the
shop, faulty out of the box. It's a very
common thing. Do you possibly have a
faulty motherboard? That could be a
thing, too. You've done everything.
You've updated by still faulty board. Do
you have a faulty CPU? That's another
thing, too. and do you have a bent pin
in the board? That could cause issues
where everything sort of like works
fine. Um, until you enable the RAM
profile or until you do some basic BIOS
optimizations and then it can't boot at
all or you throw errors. These are all
typical common things that can go wrong.
Most PC shops aren't going to
necessarily diagnose it like this.
They're just going to throw in different
hardware until the problem's solved. Um,
so just to let you guys know, hopefully
that can kind of get you out of trouble
a little bit with at least that. Now,
Prime 95 will do CPU and sort of a RAM
test. A little bit of both. Okay. And
it's just nice for a surface level t
test that will show you immediately if
something is wrong. Now we'll close
prime 95. Sometimes it will still want
to run in the background. So just go
check that. Press exit. It was still
running. Actually go back to our check
folder. All right. The next thing I want
you guys to do. This is a RAM stress
test specifically just for RAM. Now this
is using some special uh config from um
the overclocking forums. It's called
test 5 TM5. If you get this message,
it's just sort of how this program
works. Sometimes you need to close it a
bunch of times like that. It is running.
Um, it should say absolute here. Um, it
will typically, the way I've set it up,
it'll do three cycles of absolute and
stop. Generally speaking, on most modern
CPUs, that'll take 2 hours absolute max.
I believe on my CPU, it's only about an
hour from memory. I haven't done this in
a while, but this is kind of one of the
heaviest lightweight view stress tests
that I found that it will immediately
pick up issues if something is wrong.
And that's why I'm using it. Like I
said, there are lots of other good tools
out there for doing this type of thing.
I like tools that will just quickly show
you if there are going to be issues. So,
typically, if you could get through the
full three cycles, your RAM config is
like sol. And just to let you know, it's
quite possible that you can get errors
in prime 95 in the CPU test. Um, like
errors in there that are actually caused
by RAM. And it's quite possibly that you
can get errors in here that are actually
caused by CPU as well and throw errors.
So, they're kind of connected but kind
of not. So, if you could jump past that,
especially if you're trying to diagnose,
if you guys just run this for like 10
minutes, 10 minutes of Prime, 10 minutes
of TM5, and everything looks fine, don't
worry about it. Just just move on. This
is more for the guys that are kind of
having um stability issues and trying to
diagnose stuff. Okay, so let's close
that and we'll do GPU test. Uh and I
might have missed the RAM test thing, so
I'll just quickly read over that. That's
pretty similar to the CPU one. So, yeah,
that was basically the same information
as Prime 95. So, bit of info there for
you guys. a GPU test. So, we're going to
be using Firmark cuz Firmark is a really
lightweight GPU stress test that is
fairly heavy at this stage. While you've
got Firmark open, it would probably be a
good idea to just use GPU check as well
cuz that has a really nice tab for
sensors that is a little bit cleaner
than Harbor Info. So, I'm going to close
Harbor Info here, right? I'll close
that. I just use sensors and then I'll
open this up just so I can sort of see
everything. It's much cleaner. So, you
don't necessarily have to run the full
full resolution. So, I mean, if you're
on 1440p, just run a 1080p uh test. I'm
on 4K at the moment, so I'm just going
to run a 1440p test. Um, and I'll click
on run test. All right. So, it's sort of
running there. Um, and we can keep an
eye on temps and board power draw and
all of that stuff. Now, typically this
is very very heavy. So, just just a
heads up. So, what we want to check for
is temps. Make sure temps are okay. Uh,
make sure the frame rate sort of looking
good. Make sure we're getting sort of no
artifacts um at all. No freezing, no
driver crashes, no shutdowns, and no
blue screens. These are all signs that
something is wrong. then you probably
need to look at diagnosing further. All
right, so typically run this for a
little bit. If everything looks fine,
just move on. Um, and don't necessarily
use this as a graphic stress test for
overclocking your GPU because this will
heavily down clock the core clock
compared to how a lot of games work
because it's very, very heavy. All
right, but it's just some basic tools to
sort of get you guys out of trouble for
stress testing. Let's go to the next
folder. Going to look at refreshing. So,
there's a couple of options here. I'm
always going to recommend you guys to do
a complete fresh Windows install
obviously, but we have options. Factory
reset. factory reset. Now, I apologize,
guys. I've had to put links in
PowerShell scripts just because of the
way virus total has been lately with
links. So, everything is in a PowerShell
script nowadays simply so it doesn't get
flagged by Windows Defender or Virus
Total. This is the system recovery. We
can completely reset the PC. They'll do
a remove everything and keep my files. I
would recommend just backing up the
files that you need on a separate drive
or a uh you know external storage or USB
stick and just do the whole remove
everything option. Okay. If you want to
see a little bit more in depth, you can
check out my older ultimate video. I've
kind of covered that a little bit more
in depth. All right. And another option
is if you're on a Microsoft account and
you want to get off the Microsoft
account. To do that, what you can do is
you can go to here, account local, add
another account, right? And just go sign
in without a Microsoft account. And then
just go local account. And we'll just
call this PC just as an example. You
don't have to set a password if you want
a quick login like me. And you press
finish. And then what you can actually
do right now, you have to make sure it's
administrator account. You go to
properties. Uh where is it? Um, you can
actually just double click it before you
sign out and sign into this account. Go
make sure it's an administrator account.
Okay, that's different to UAC. So, just
make sure that's administrator account.
And then you can press okay. Sign out.
Sign into this account. And then you
could come back in here and you could
delete this. So, actually, I'll show you
guys right now doing that. Let's just
press okay. I'm going to sign out. It's
letting you guys know that if you have
applied a bunch of optimizations and you
do do this, will kind of reset
everything back to default some things,
right? It will sign into PC and it will
kind of set us up. So this is a a way an
option for you guys if you don't want to
do a fresh install but you want to get
off off a Microsoft account. This is a
way to get on a local. Now there is
another way to do it in the immersive
control panel I've seen recently and I
don't recommend doing it that way
because it will mess up your directories
because you'll have everything as one
drive documents. Um and that's a
complete mess as an example. So I go to
users here PC. Okay. It'll kind of
everything will still be in one drive if
you do it that way. The way I just
showed you is the best way to do it. But
obviously you'd want to remove the old
account. Now, obviously, make sure that
you there's no data on the old account
that um you know that you need before
you do this, but we go open with choose
another shell. So, we can double click.
Here we are here. So, now that I
definitely don't need anything on that
account um and you know, we're going to
switch to a local account. Let's pretend
that's a Microsoft account. I'll just go
remove and yes, and then okay. Now,
sometimes Windows won't completely
remove it. So, you could go to C drive
users and then this is the Microsoft
account. Delete that and continue. One
way to completely get rid of it and
simply empty the recycle bin. And now
you're going to be on a local account
without weird directories that are going
through one drive. All right, where were
we? So, we were up to doing a fresh
install, I believe. So, refresh,
reinstall. Okay, to do a fresh install,
this will simply download and open the
media creation tool for either 10 or 11.
A lot of you guys like to use Rufus, and
I get it. Rufus is all right. My method
is sort of easier, and it just works,
and I don't want to over complicate
things in the ultimate guide, right? And
the thing is, I'm going to be including
an auto unattended and a special updates
driver block as well, which we'll cover
very shortly. So, I would honestly just
recommend plugging in your USB stick and
just using the media creation tool. So,
we're going to reinstall Windows 11.
Like I said, I've done full support for
10 in this guide and everything will
work flawlessly. And it's the same
process, but just for pure simplicity
sake of this video, we're just going to
be covering 11 today. So, we'll press
two and then enter. It'll download the
media creation tool for Windows 11.
It'll take a little while to open. Say
getting things ready. Press accept.
They've made this pretty easy to just go
through. So, you don't necessarily have
to click that. You could select whatever
you want, but I'm just going to go with
that. Uh, we want to do to a USB flash
drive. And then hit next. And then it
should show a USB stick. If it's not,
you need to try a different USB stick or
plug it into a different slot in the
board. It has picked up my USB stick
here. So, I will press next. And it's
going to actually go ahead download the
ISO and then burn it to your USB stick.
All right, it's done. I have a USB 3
stick. It took about 5 minutes. If you
got a USB 2 stick, that could take up to
like 30 minutes or an hour, just to let
you guys know. So, if you got a slow USB
stick, this may take a while. Hit
finish, and it will just clean up the
tool. Now, that's done. Now, if we open
up our USB stick, these are the pure
files that are needed to reinstall
Windows. All right, but we're not done
yet. There's a couple of things more
that we need to do. And please don't
miss these steps cuz they're actually
super important. What is an auto
unattend? An auto unattend is a file
that has been around forever. It's an
XML file that gets put here and it tells
Microsoft to bypass a whole bunch of
rubbish so you don't need to click
through a bunch of things and turn
Cortana off. You can force a local
account. You can do lots of good things.
What this auto unattended does is it'll
preset the region so you don't need to
do anything. It'll preset the time so
you don't need to do anything. You'll
have to try and change your time later.
It you'll set you up on a local account
where you don't have to set a password.
Um it'll bypass if you wanted to install
Windows 11 on a non-supported Windows 11
system. This will work. We're bypassing
the TPM check, bypassing RAM check,
bypass secure boot check, bypass CPU
check, and bypass the storage check. And
we're forcing a local account, and we're
forcing having to enter a product key.
So, please, please, please use this one.
It's very important. Let's open up auto
unattended. So, this script is created
in a way where it will actually edit the
file, create the file, and edit the file
for you. So, you can set your own
account name because everyone wants
their own account name. Now, this is not
going to be a Microsoft account. This is
going to be your own account name as a
local account. So, I'm going to call
mine free and then I'll press enter.
Please don't use any spaces at all in
your name if possible. It does cause
some issues with auto unattend. So,
we'll press enter. Um, and then enter
the USB drive letter. So, our USB drive
letter is F. So, I will enter F. It can
be lowerase or uppercase, it doesn't
matter. Just F and then enter. And then
it will actually open up the USB stick.
And we have confirmed it created the
autoended for us. So, I'll edit that in
Notepad just to show you guys what that
looks like. This is sort of what an auto
unattended looks like, but I've just
made it really really easy for you guys.
Um, and my name will be in here. It's
going to force my name, no password, and
bypass all TPM, secure boot, all that
stuff. Um, now this isn't necessarily
for our machine, but this is going to
really help someone who wants to use
Windows 11 on a non-supported machine.
So, I wanted to cover all bases. This
won't mess anything up either. If you
are using TPM and secure boot, they will
still work. Don't worry. All right. So,
we've created auto10. This is one of the
most important things. And now we don't
need to do all this rubbish to bypass
the OB. It'll all be done for us and
it's going to force a local account. The
next one that I'm really proud of and I
absolutely adore this script that I've
made. If you guys are sort of more power
users and want more control over your
system, this gives you a lot of cool
options here. So, this will only work on
Windows Pro, LTSC, IoT, or Server only.
There are registry keys that get applied
through group policy that can let you
choose whether you want driver updates
or not, or even updates. Now, instead of
using group policy, I'm using the keys
here purely for simplicity. Also, just
say you install home and then convert it
to pro later, it'll already be applied.
So, when you're on pro or any of these,
it'll work. So, I hope you're not too
confused at this stage. But what we can
do here is it gives us full choice and
control. So, as soon as we reinstall
Windows, Windows is going to download
your Razer software. If a Razer um mouse
is plugged in, your Logitech software is
a Logitech mouse is plugged in. It's
going to download all the IGP drivers,
the graphics drivers, the chipset
drivers. you have no control over that.
Um, and then if you want a clean system
like me, I'm going into control panel
trying to get rid of everything and then
it doesn't get rid of everything. So
then I'm going into all the folders and
I'm going in device manager and I'm
trying to uninstall the the drivers and
I don't want any of that rubbish. I want
full choice and control. I want the
drivers that I want on my system. Now
guys, you do not need chipset drivers
nowadays. They're a complete waste of
time and effort and they just bloat
unless you are on a dual CCD AMD CPU and
you looking at parking your cores while
playing game. If you have a single CCD
CPU, don't worry about it. Now, this is
great because the way I've made the
script is if we do block, it'll block it
for the system that we're currently
running. So, next time we do updates, no
drivers will ever come through or OEM
bloatware or anything like that. So,
this is going to be great for laptop
users that have all that Dell stuff when
you first install Windows. That won't
happen. And then an unblock option. So,
this is for the live current install
that you have already. So, if I did this
right now or this right now, it would
block or unblock. So anytime we get
Windows updates, no driver updates will
come through. No OEM bloat, no um you
know Razer or Logitech bloat, no
nothing. None of that stuff would come
through. I've made it where you can also
apply to the bootable USB as well. And
that's what you want to do here because
the thing is as soon as we install
Windows, Windows is going to try to
download all those drivers and rubbish
and deploy on our machine. We want to
prevent that because doing the cleanup
sometimes is really difficult. So, if we
could apply it instantly, so it's done
straight away as soon as we install
Windows, then we don't have to do a
cleanup later. And then we choose what
drivers we want on our system. It gives
you full control. So, for me, I'm going
to be using the block bootable USB
option because I want to do that on the
fresh install we're doing today. And I
would recommend any power user to do
this because then you can choose what
drivers you want deployed on your
system. Don't leave it up to Microsoft.
So, we'll press two and then we'll press
enter. And it will say enter USB drive
letter. So, obviously a USB drive letter
is F. I'll press F and then enter and
then it will actually take you to the
location. So what it does is it creates
a OEM dollar dollar sign setup scripts.
So as soon as Windows is deployed, it's
actually going to apply the group policy
regge keys to stop Windows from updating
drivers and all the rubbish so we'll
have full control. So that I've actually
made that work with updates. So, say you
just don't ever want to do updates,
which I wouldn't necessarily recommend
for for security wise, but say you just
want to deploy your Windows and then
block updates straight from the bat as
soon as the Windows is deployed. You
could do that here as well. Or say you
just wanted to update block updates
currently. We could do that right now.
Um, let me just make sure I'm on pro cuz
I thought it was home. Okay, no, I am on
pro here. So, like I said, it won't work
on home. So, as an example, if I go to
updates right now, obviously updates are
always going to come through no matter
what I do. If I do this, I press four.
This is on the live machine. And then
enter. It says blocked updates. Press
enter. Continue to continue. Now, if I
go to Sometimes you need to restart for
some of these reg keys, but this one you
don't. See, now updates are completely
blocked. And it says Windows update
settings are managed by your
organization. And they'll never ever
ever come through until you revert it.
All right. I'll obviously just revert
that here just to show you guys.
Unblock, then enter. Now, from a
security standpoint, this is a pretty
bad idea. If you're a power user and you
want full choice and control, this gives
you full choice and control. And say you
wanted to do it when you fresh deploy
Windows. So, Windows updates are blocked
from the back. Um, from from the get-
go, you can do that. For most you power
users out there, I honestly just
recommend leaving updates enabled and
just block the driver updates. And we've
just done that here with a debutable
USB. So, hopefully that sort of makes
sense how that works. Now, we ideally
want to grab an updated network driver
because now we have full choice and
control over what drivers get deployed
on our machine. So, we've disabled the
BIOS driver update feature that comes
with all the bloat and we've stopped
Windows when we fresh install Windows um
to be doing that. So, we have full
choice and control. Ideally, get an
updated network driver. Um, because a
lot of the times your Windows might not
necessarily have a driver built in from
factory for your specific board. So,
this script will take you directly to
your motherboard. I'd recommend going to
support, go to download or drivers,
okay? And I'm going to be looking for my
LAN driver. And for me, I have a real
LAN card. And honestly guys, I don't
bother with updating anything other than
LAN driver. I just grab LAN driver and
graphics driver. That's it. That is all
you need. Everything else is just bloat
or just changes names in device manager
and it doesn't do anything. All right,
it doesn't doesn't affect your
performance. So, I'll extract that and
get that ready. And it looks like I have
a nice little simple XC file. Some of
you guys might not have this. It might
be a folder with a bunch of files. If
it's a folder with a bunch of files,
drag that to your USB stick. For me,
it's just a single XI file. So, I'm
going to be putting that to my USB
stick. And I'll just make sure that's
there. There it is. There. I've got my
LAN driver ready to go. Make sure you
guys grab the LAN driver cuz I don't
want you to fresh install Windows and
then be without internet because Windows
didn't come with a default driver for
your LAN card. So now we'll go to BIOS
and look at fresh installing Windows.
Before we do though, I would recommend
going to this PC um and the Windows that
you are going to be reinstalling where
it's always going to be it's always
going to be C drive. I would recommend
renaming this. So, if we go show more
options and properties, you can either
call it delete me or just call it
Windows Windows or delete me just so you
know what it is because when we're in
the install screen, we want to make sure
that we don't delete our other data off
our other drives, especially if you have
important information. So, I'm going to
just call this Windows just so we know
that we're going to be deleting the the
right drive when we're going through the
fresh install process. All right, let's
go to BIOS. This script will save you a
bit of time and take you directly there.
We'll press enter and away we go. We are
in BIOS. We are going to have to go to
boot. Every board will look a little
different and you want to change boot
option one to your USB stick, right?
Otherwise, we're going to keep going
back to the current Windows boot manager
with the current Windows installed. So,
select your USB stick and we'll press
enter here and then we will go to exit.
We'll go to save changes and exit and
then press enter. And now it's going to
boot to our USB stick. So, we can do a
fresh Windows install. We have booted to
our USB stick. Now, the auto unattend is
going to take care of 99% of things
here. So, we want to select our
addition. I would either recommend home
or pro. Now, because we have set the
registry keys to block Windows drivers
from installing through through Windows
updates and all the OEM bloatware, I'm
going to really obviously recommend Pro.
And I'm going to recommend Pro to most
of you because you can activate Windows
um quite easily. I would really
recommend Pro for most of you, but yeah,
you go home if you wanted to. I would be
careful with some of the other builds
cuz some of the other builds come
without Windows Media Player um and the
they're the core files for Windows Media
Player and you can't play certain games.
So, I'd obviously just recommend Home or
Pro for 99% out of you. I do just
recommend installing pro even if you
don't have a key. You can get activated
very very easily nowadays and I'll cover
that a little bit later. So we'll just
press next. I'm going to choose pro cuz
I definitely don't want Windows
downloading OEM bloat or driver updates.
I want to full control over that. I
apologize the screen might be really
small for you guys. I can't change the
scaling here. So I named my drive to
Windows. Okay. So I have a bunch of I
purposely did it this way. I left my
other drives plugged in. I've got
important data here on tests. I've got
important data here on storage. This
might look a little confusing. What you
want to look at is the disc. Okay. So,
what disc is Windows on? We named it
Window. It's disc 2. So, we want to wipe
every partition that is on disk 2, but
do not touch disc one. Do not touch disc
zero. And definitely do not touch your
USB stick. Otherwise, you're screwed.
Um, that would have to be remade. And if
you'd already deleted your Windows one
at that point, you would need another PC
to make another bootable US. So, our
Windows is on disk 2. We're only going
to be deleting the partitions of disk 2.
So, I'll start with dis 2 partition 4.
Delete partition. Disartition 3. Windows
delete partition disc two partition two
delete partition and disk two partition
one delete partition. We're only
touching disc two. Now it's going to be
different for you guys. Just letting you
know you know that you've named it so
you'll know what the Windows um is
attached to what disc. Okay. So I fully
wiped the Windows drive. It's completely
wiped. There are no other partitions
associated with it. So I make sure I
have highlighted and then I'll press
next. And this is how to do a complete
clean fresh install. Now, when this is
finished, some boards will keep boot
looping back to the USB stick. If that
happens, you're going to have to restart
and spam the delete or F2 button. So,
you can change the boot option back to
Windows boot manager. And you guys know
sometimes it will keep boot looping back
to doing this all the time. And I'll
show you guys what that might look like.
All right, let's just say where you've
got one of those boards that's very
stubborn. It will always stick to that
boot order that you've set it to. You
might get what's happening to me here.
It'll keep booting back to the USB stick
even though we've already done the fresh
install. So, if that happens, it'll sort
of look like this. So, if that happens,
just press the red X. Press the red X
again. And because we've already done
all this, just press yes to quit. And
you'll have to get your keyboard. You'll
either have to spam delete or F2 to go
straight back to BIOS. So, we can change
the boot order. We're in BIOS here. Go
to boot. You see how stubborn it is?
It's always going to stick to the USB. I
actually prefer it that way, but some
boards are a little bit different. Some
boards are smart enough to know that
you've done a fresh install and will
automatically switch this for you, but
some boards won't. So, we're going to
set number one to Windows boot manager
now. And that's the new boot manager
that we've just made. Going to go to
exit, save changes, and exit. Now, if
you guys remember videos from the past,
I would always say unplug your Ethernet
cable at this stage. Just stop Windows
downloading driver updates and doing
this and doing that cuz there's a bug
with Windows 11 where it will break your
local account. Well, I'm it's quite safe
to say with the auto unattended and with
the setup complete, you guys actually
don't have to worry about that anymore.
You can just leave the Ethernet cable
plugged in and the driver and OEM bloat
is going to be completely blocked. And
it's going to force auto unattended.
It's going to force a local account with
the name that you chose for it. And if
you guys want to set a password later,
you can quite easily do that. But for
now, Windows will be deployed without a
password. So it will just instantly log
you into the desktop. Windows may reboot
a few times. That's pretty normal. Just
taking a little while to install itself.
But as you can see here, using the auto
unattended, we've bypassed so many
annoying things that Windows tries to
get us to turn on. They're all turned
off. And we have a local account force.
Windows is now deploying itself. All
right. Windows is deployed. So, I didn't
grab the Optipac, so I'm just going to
regra it. Edge can be quite annoying,
but we can deal with Edge later. We're
going to need to make sure we have
scripts on. So, let's make sure we have
scripts on here. Make sure that setting
is on. Crey GitHub. You guys drag those
files to the USB stick. The the ultimate
hacker that could work too. Just make
sure that if you've done that um you if
you you know you run the allow scripts,
but with this option, you don't have to
run the allow scripts. Okay. So, we will
search PowerShell. We run as
administrator. And then we'll paste that
in here and press enter. Have you
noticed something that Windows isn't
downloading driver updates and we don't
have all this rubbish popping up in our
face? We are on a local account uh with
no password. It's logged us straight in
without any rubbish. It's really really
nice. So we're back where we started.
Where are we up to? So I believe we are
up to setup. So we'll start with Bit
Locker. So on Windows Pro, Bit Locker is
starting to be forced on by default,
which is quite annoying. I'd really
recommend just turning Bit Locker off if
it's gaming machine. Uh here it is. See,
it never used to be forced on by default
on Pro. locker doesn't exist on home so
you guys don't have to worry about it.
But if you're on pro, you really want to
turn this off. This script will do it
for you. So let's allow the option to
double click with PowerShell because
this is kind of annoying. And we'll
press always. Okay. Then we'll press yes
for admin. So we've got the option of
Bit Locker off and Bit Locker on. I'm
going to change my scaling so you guys
can see a lot easier. There we go. Let's
turn Bit Locker off. So I'll press one
and then press enter. This script will
turn Bit Locker off. That's on any
drives at all. And it will say
decrypting. So, I'd probably recommend
waiting for this to finish decryting
before you do anything else. So,
probably open task manager. All right.
Go to disk usage and you'll see it kind
of decryptting the drive here. Might
take some time. Don't think this is
going to help you from a security
standpoint, guys. The only time Bit
Locker will actually help you is if you
unplug the drive and try to put it into
another system. It won't be readable and
you have to wipe the data. Um, it's not
going to help you for, you know, viruses
or anything like that. So, please just
just have it off. Um, unless you do
have, you know, imported data that you
don't want anyone else to access. That
is a thing. But here's the thing. Um,
the Bit Locker keys have kind of been
broken now and, um, Microsoft literally
gave them out to the FBI and CIA. So,
Bit Locker is bypassable completely now.
Uh, I wouldn't even bother having it on
at all. Not something you guys have to
worry about on home, like I said. Next
one. Memory compression. Memory
compression is starting to be enabled by
default on a lot of machines. Now, if
you've only got 4 gig of RAM, I'd
probably leave it enabled. If you have a
gaming machine 16 gigs and above, we
really want it off. Okay, it'll slow
things down. I've got a check option
here. So, let's check. And guess what? I
cannot believe it. Windows wants to
enable memory compression by default on
the later builds of Windows. It's
absolutely disgusting. We want to turn
it off. Let's press enter to continue.
And we'll go back and open the script
again. Let's turn this rubbish off.
We'll turn it off. And we'll press enter
to continue again. Now, a lot of these
scripts you need to restart. For this
one, you actually don't need a restart.
You kind of just have to wait for
Windows to kick it in. So, if we want to
use the check option here, it might not
show straight away for you guys as
false. So, we memory compression is
definitely off now. That's great. You
might need to just wait a minute um
depending on your drive and how fast
your PC is. And then just come recheck
it again. Just make sure this says
false. All right. It'll say settings may
take a while to initialize after boot. A
short period before check memory
compression. I cannot believe that
Windows is doing this by default now.
It's disgusting. That's why I've had to
cover everything. All right. We have a
convert home to pro. So if you are on a
laptop and it might have kind of
bypassed what the auto unattended tried
to do and you've selected um you know
pro home um it might be a good idea to
look at converting to pro. So if you
want to see what version you're on you
can usually just go to system and then
about and then it will say sort of what
Windows version that you're on. Um
another option to do that is press
Windows key R type winver. It's another
way to do it if you're on a a lot of you
guys on laptops um the way that they
work with the board it might actually
force home on you. Um, and there's a
quite a simple solution if you want to
convert to pro. I made this script for
you. Just simply double click it. All
right. And then make sure you disable
the internet first. Um, so either Wi-Fi
is connected or you can unplug the
Ethernet cable or something like that.
And then this will automatically get
pasted to your clipboard. This is a
generic pro key and without internet,
it'll actually work and convert your
version. So you can just press paste
here cuz the script actually paste it
into your clipboard already. Um, you can
paste it here. Make sure no internet's
connected. Press next and it will
actually convert home to pro for you. So
that'll help out my fellow laptop users
quite a lot. Okay, keys. I am not going
to go in here, but you guys can activate
Windows quite easily nowadays and
that'll take you there. I'm not going to
cover that in this video. Um, so yeah,
and you can quite simply go to
activation here to just make sure it's
activated. A lot of you might have
already been activated before and a key
was tied to your board. So this might
already be done. That's why it's already
done for me here. Uh, but for some of
you that might have used the home to pro
or didn't activate Windows at all, you
can check this here, which I am not
going to show while I'm recording this
video. Um, go to date, language, region,
and time. One's pretty straightforward.
Make sure you set your region. I'm in
the land of Australia. I'm going to
click Australia here, and then click
sync. Now, now, for some of you guys
that are doing sort of uni work, uh,
university or school and stuff like
that, you might want to come into
language and region, and you might
actually want to set your proper region.
Um, I'll do I'll do it for me anyway,
right? Why not? Just to show you guys.
So, I'll set it to Australia. You can
actually I'm just typing on the keyboard
here. It'll come up. Um, you change the
region, change it to Australia. Um, and
you might want to actually add your
language pack because the spelling uh
for things like Office 365 and certain
apps will actually be what set here. So,
as an example, I'll set this to
Australia, English Australia. So, choose
whatever your yours is, right? Cuz the
uh auto10 sort of presets it to the US.
Um, you actually I don't need any of
this rubbish. I just want the language
pack. So, I'll hit install. And then
what I'm going to do here is I'm going
to bring this up by default. So I'll
click usually I think I have to wait for
it to I can move this down. Okay, I'm
going to have to wait for it to download
first. There we go. It's done. I'll go
move up and then I'm not going to need
two language packs. If you don't get rid
of the other language pack, you'll
always have this notification in the
taskbar tray. So make sure the language
that you want is set up the top as
default. And then I can simply go here
and just remove this one. And now it's
going to get rid of that little taskbar
tray icon. It is going to be pretty slow
adding these. Sometimes they're a little
buggy. So don't worry too much. I'm just
going to close it out. We're ready to
go. All right. So, startup apps. Startup
apps. So, a lot of these scripts are
sort of already kind of nuke these and
take care of these, but just for, you
know, just for the sake of it, come in
here. You can check startup apps. We'll
turn these off. That will not turn
Defender off, guys. Just to let you guys
know, that's just the taskbar
notification tray. Turning that off is
not going to turn Windows Defender off,
so don't freak out over that. Uh, here's
another option for startup apps.
Sometimes you might see some legacy apps
in here. Um, you can simply set it to
enabled or disabled. You might see a
couple of extra things in here that
weren't in the other one. um background
apps. So, let's go to background apps.
This is more of a Windows 10 thing that
stops the UWP apps from running in the
background. I like to apply it anyway.
So, when we press one and enter, we
won't see anything pop up here. If
you're on Windows 10, you will see the
background apps page open. Um Edge
settings, I really recommend running
this. This is going to remove the Edge
update schedule tasks, the Edge
services. It's going to pre-install an
ad blocker on Edge for you. It's going
to turn off hardware acceleration. It's
going to return on memory saving for
you. So, if you are an Edge user, at
least Edge is not going to be so ass
when you're playing games and hogging up
much of the system. And then here it is
here. So, I can pin that there. Want to
change my levels, whatever. I turn it
off and on the air locker. Um, and it's
already pre-applied the settings, which
is our acceleration run in the
background. You know, the services are
completely nuked that update edge all
the time. We're going to be nuking Edge
and we'll talk about that a little bit
later. And this is store settings. So,
you've got store settings are, you know,
optimize and default. So, you know, most
of these things have a revert option.
Now, if you wanted to revert, so we'll
go optimize. Now, it's going to open
because you have to actually open the
store open to disable personalized
experience. So, just wait for the script
to do its thing. Script just takes and
see all these are off. Now, if you do
use the store, um later on, it might be
a good idea to come in and go to
downloads and just download everything.
Um because doing this will actually
update the store. So, if you're having a
bug with trying to get an app download
and install, it might be because the
store actually isn't updated. So, if you
go download, check for updates here, it
will update the store as well. I don't
recommend doing this right now,
especially if you're going to run the
deblo script um because it's just going
to update apps that we're going to nuke
anyway. So, we'll just leave that for
now. Let's go to updates and pause. This
is going to give you a little bit more
control. It's just going to pause
updates for a year. Uh if you want to
reset that straight away, you just press
resume updates. Um but I just thought
that was a cool script. So, what we're
going to do right now is we're actually
going to fully update Windows and I'm
going to show you guys in real time how
autoattended work. Look, we're in a
local account with no password. And
we're going to see right now that
updates aren't going to push any OEM
bloatware and are not going to install
drivers for us at all. We're going to
have full control. I'll quickly go to
device manager here. There is just no
bloat installed. So, if I want a driver,
I install it. I have full control. So,
if I want my Bluetooth to work, I'm
going to have to grab a Bluetooth
driver. If I want my Wi-Fi to work, I'm
going to go grab a Wi-Fi driver, etc.,
etc. So, this gives you full choice and
control, and you don't have to worry
about Windows updates trying to bring a
whole bunch of chipset rubbish OEM
bloat. all sorts of things. It is just
an absolute lifesaver, that little
driver uh block driver update script.
So, I'm actually going to grab this
update as well. So, I click download and
install. We'll do all of them. Right,
we're pending a restart. So, we'll hit
restart now.
All right, we have Windows fully
updated. I'm going to go into Ultimate,
go into setup, and I'm going to pause
updates for a year because I want full
control, and I can make my own decision
when I want updates to come through, not
Microsoft. A little bit more control
from a security standpoint, not a good
idea. If you want to revert that, just
press resume updates here. if you want
to revert that. Let's get to installers.
I have some juicy stuff here for you
guys installers. I'll cover what some of
these do real quick. Now, most of them
are just a silent installer just to save
time. They're grabbing. All of these are
coming from the legitimate websites now,
but some of them do a couple of little
extra things. Discord will predisable
hardware acceleration. Sevenzip will
pre-do the sevenzip settings for the
rightclick context menu, which is quite
nice. Brave will pre-nuke the services
and update tasks. Pre-install an ad
blocker. pre- disable acceleration,
pre-d disable uh pre-enable memory
saving, and pre- disable uh run on
startup. Firefox will do the same as I
just mentioned for Brave. Same with
Chrome. Notepad++ will pre-install a
nice config, which disables updates and
gives you a nice dark theme if you like
to edit configs, game configs. This is
really handy. And the rest are kind of
just like silent installs. Okay, now
Spotify actually predisables hardware
acceleration um and predisables boot on
startup. So Spotify will do that. The
Spotify installer will do that. The rest
of them are just silent installers just
purely to save time cuz these are quite
common things that gamers use. Now, any
game launches, programs, or web browsers
you want to disable hardware
acceleration, you want to turn off
running on startup unless you explicitly
want it to run on startup and deactivate
overlays ideally. Now, I'm not saying
all overlays are bad. You never know
with certain updates and things, and
there have been issues in the past with
overlays in general with things. So, if
you've got any apps, ideally try to turn
off all of these if you can, especially
if they're going to be open while you
play games. As an example, if you had
Chrome, Spotify, and Discord all running
on a second monitor with hardware
acceleration on all all of them, and you
had the Discord overlays on, it's going
to affect your performance. Hardware
acceleration uses your card to speed up
the app. You would lose some GPU
performance there. This is a general
rule of thumb, start off by doing that.
Um, and now when it comes to games and
game configs, lower GPU usage and higher
frame rates reduce latency. Optimize
your game settings to achieve this.
Further tuning can be done via config
files and launch options. sort of the
kind of content I do on YouTube cover
this. I do have a GitHub repo repo for
some game configs. If we go to my GitHub
here, if you're interested, these kind
of game configs would sort of just
preset everything in the absolute lowest
and stuff that you can turn down even
lower in the config. Obviously, I need
to look at updating this and bringing
some new games on here. Just letting you
guys know if you're after some more
performance in your games. And like I
said, yeah, the rest is sort of just
silent installs on common things that
people use. Now, MSI After Burner, this
will install a really nice config for
MSI After Burner. So, this is going to
grab the latest version as of now. Um,
and pre-do a config for you. So, a
really nice overlay and a really nice
benchmarking config. And I'll show you
guys real quick what that looks like.
Now, make sure if you ever use MS After
Burner or any kind of logging software,
always have GPU power and power percent.
Anything that looks GPU power will cause
bad 1% lows and bad low frame rates. Um,
so it's just general rule of thumb. Make
sure that you have um, so we hadn't just
installed DirectX yet. So, it looks like
MS After Burn is doing that for us,
which is quite nice. Please do look at
using this overlay config, guys. It
installs MSI After Burner and River
Tuner. You do not need to have them open
in the background. Uh if you want to
diagnose an issue, um you know, or like
check something that's going on, it's
going to be really useful. That's
finished installing. And we haven't
installed a graphics driver yet, so I
can't actually show you guys the overlay
yet. Scaling. If you're on 4K like me,
this app uses legacy scaling. Legacy
scaling. So, we'll have to change the
scaling in the app here. But I will show
you guys the overlay stuff when we get
the graphics driver installed. Also,
here's another way. If you're on 4K, if
you need a little bit more, you may need
to bring that up. This tells you
everything that you need to know. It'll
tell you all your CPU cores. Um, you
know what it's boosting to, the
temperature, the percentage, the watts,
everything you need to know. It'll even
show the flip model here. Refresh rate
of the monitor, you know. Um, looks like
this app is using DirectX9, the
resolution, the frame rate. If you
actually press F11, I've preset this
F11, it'll benchmark, and F12 to stop
and that benchmark will be saved under C
drive under benchmark there. Really
handy and a quick way of testing some
things. And say you like to leave MSI
Afterburn open, but you want to toggle
the overlay on and off. I have preset
that to toggle the overlay on and off.
And also you ideally, if you're on an
Nvidia card, you guys are going to want
to overclock in here to set your
overclock. This button will apply the
overclock on startup, but I will make a
note for myself to cover this later.
Nvidia profile inspector. Here's a
really handy tool. This will sort of
just pre-install it straight from the
website. Now, this is the slightly older
version that lets you import configs in
the command line. We had an error there
cuz we don't have the graphics driver
installed. This can be really a useful
tool for doing certain things. More
clock tool. If you're on an AMD card, I
highly recommend this, especially if you
use the debloated driver because it'll
let you overclock the card and set fast
timing because you can't set fast timing
on AMD cards with MS. And if you use the
debloated driver, you obviously don't
have access to overclock your card in
the driver. So, this can be really
useful. Unfortunately, it only works for
5000 series and above, but most of you
will probably be on a card like that
anyway. Press enter to continue. It'll
just install it for you. And there it
is. There a shortcut in your desktop and
a shortcut in your start menu. CU SIR
some really useful tools. Scale scale
resolution utility and custom resolution
utility. I'll show you guys this a
little bit later. I just like to use
them to clean things up. So I will cover
those up a little bit later. I think
I'll just put them to the side there. We
need to get the graphics driver
installed now because we have blocked
Windows from grabbing any drivers for us
cuz we have full control. We actually
don't need to use driver clean here. But
if you guys didn't do that, I highly
recommend at this stage using driver
clean so we can grab our own drivers cuz
Windows would have grabbed a generic all
the driver and it would be nice to
completely start cleaning and wipe it
and start start fresh before we look at
updating our graphics drivers. I've got
two options here. DD auto will
automatically remove everything. Okay,
that'll remove all your uh sound drivers
and all graphics drivers and do it
automatically. Manual will give you the
option to choose. So manual comes in use
where you don't want to uninstall
realtech audio. um but you just want to
uninstall your graphics driver or say
you have an iGPU and a uh normal GPU but
you just want to uninstall one of them
that's when you would use manual but
we'll use auto today actually I'll show
you guys both so using auto it's sort of
I've I've done it in a way where it's
all automated you guys so before you
guys had to go into safe mode change the
DDU settings so this script actually
pre-changes the DDU config to make sure
it removes everything so if you're
removing just the graphics driver and
make sure it removes physics and all
that other things so all the settings it
creat creates a config for DDU where it
pre-do all the setting. That's the
problem with a lot of these scripts.
There's a lot of stuff that goes in in
the back end. Like if you go to options
and settings, there's a lot of settings
there to change to make sure it wipes
everything, but I've already pre-done
that in the script. There's a lot of
behind the scenes stuff that you don't
necessarily see unless you're going to
read the code, but DD auto is really
nice and it saves a lot of time. Um, so
if we want to like roll back a driver or
even if you just like to clean wipe
before you install a new driver, it's
really really handy. So, most of you
would probably use auto, but for some of
you that just want to pick and choose
what you're uninstalling, um, you could
use manual. So, I'll show you guys
manual next. So, that's just all
automated. That just removed everything.
So, all sound drivers and all graphics
drivers, AMD, Intel, and Nvidia, it just
removed all of them all at once. You
guys might be familiar with that for my
wind sucks. Now, it was completely
pointless doing this on my home build,
my pro build with updates blocked
completely. Anyway, I just wanted to
show you guys the script in action. I'll
also show you guys DD auto as well. So,
DD auto one and uh sorry, no DD manual.
So, to show you guys DD manual to then
enter. Oh, it's going to do the same
thing, but when we're in safe mode, when
DDO opens, we get to choose what we want
removed. So, here's DD manual. So, we're
actually in safe mode and this script
has actually opened. So, I just show you
guys. Boom. See how we're in safe mode
there. Um, and DDO has opened. So, now
because it's DDU manual, we choose what
we want. So, say I specifically wanted
to keep my IGPU driver and my audio
drivers. And I just want to uninstall my
Nvidia driver. So, update my Nvidia
driver. I can just select GPU and Nvidia
and clean and restart. And this script
has actually already turned the safe
mode toggle already um back off. So,
when it restarts, it's just going to
boot us straight back to normal mode.
And this is an absolute lifesaver for
saving time. All right, we're back in.
So, at this stage, we need to look at
installing drivers. I've got lots of
different options for you guys. So, say
you want to just grab the latest and you
don't want a debloed driver. Here is
your option here. So, I'm going to show
you guys the script where it's just
going to help you grab the latest driver
um and not deblo it and not do the
settings. This script just grabs the
latest driver and installs the latest
driver normally without debloating. This
one completely let it lets you choose
the driver that you want. Completely
strips the driver and does all the
settings for you. So, I'll show you
both. If you use this one, you're going
to need to play with these. But if you
use this one, it strips the driver and
does all of these for you. So, let's
just do the normal driver install. I
will show you guys all three. So, we'll
press one and then enter. And it's just
going to grab the latest driver directly
from the website and open the installer
for us. Here's a little bit of info for
you guys using the normal driver with
the Nvidia app. Please try to avoid
using game filters. Please try to avoid
using the performance overlay unless
you're doing a benchmark because it will
affect your frame. So, this script will
just grab the latest and we can just go
ahead and install it. Here we go. We can
choose what we want. Now the debloated
driver obviously is just going to remove
everything. Just have the pure drive in
the control panel. But um to show you
guys a couple of things you want to turn
off in the Nvidia app. I'm going to
install the full driver here. Go
express. You can select clean option um
back there. There's no need because
we've used DDU with driver clean. All
right. To install the latest driver. So
I'm going to hit close. And I need to
show you guys a couple of things with
the Nvidia app that are actually fairly
important. We hit next here. Make sure
you turn this off. If you don't turn
this off, Nvidia is actually going to
change your game config settings on the
fly to what it thinks that you know is
is is more optimized. Um, their settings
are rubbish, right? You want to have
full control over what your game
graphics settings are going to be or if
you go in the config and turn them down
lower or edit them or whatever, please
just turn this off. It is an absolute
nightmare. And another thing with game
launches, turn cloud config off too if
you can cuz otherwise like whatever
settings you do, it's just going to get
reset sometimes. Completely bug out. You
can leave the overlay on if you want to
do recordings. If you don't want to do
recordings, you can turn it off. But if
you don't want to do recordings, why are
you installing the Nvidia app in the
first place, right? What I like to do
here is I like to go ahead and this
whole scan locations, I like to remove
that because I am not using the um
automatically optimized setting, right?
We can enable and disable the video
overlay. I'd recommend making sure that
game filters is turned off. I like to
turn off notifications cuz they're
annoying and I like to turn that off as
well. Now, if you do want to record, um
I do recommend making sure you have
highlights on so they're not always
running in the background. Um try to
avoid using uh statistics if you can,
unless you're genuinely benchmarking cuz
you will lose a few frames with that. Um
and I'm pretty sure that just about
covers everything. Yeah, it does. But
with uh video capture, uh if you have
one of the newer cards, uh AV1 is really
really nice. Um you will lose a couple
more frames compared to just the normal
recording method, but if you want sort
of like a lossless solution that looks
incredible, AV1 is really nice. But
that's only really on some of the newer
newer cars. Um, but I'm sure a lot of
you guys are very familiar with this app
though. I just showed you guys the the
things to sort of avoid. Now, the next
one, Nvidia settings. This will just do
the Nvidia control panel settings. So,
I'll show you guys that right now. Video
settings on. That'll do all your control
panel settings here. Set up for PE
performance. Those are the settings
that'll run for peeled performance if
that's what you're after, like sort of
like the lowest latency. Um, let's see
if it did. I had a script that did
these, but I got flagged by any virus,
so that sucks. Uh, it should have
already set this. So, it's already set
physics to your actual card. Would have
already set. This is something I like to
do. Nothing that really affects
performance. Just something I like to
do. It's already preset that. And if we
didn't have the Nvidia app, it would
have already by the time we restart, it
would already have disabled the the show
notification tray icon. A lot of things
I've automated. Now, I see a lot of
people come in here and try to play with
this. Do not play with this. If you play
with this, it will completely override
what this is. Just letting you guys
know. Leave this alone. you want to
change things, you change them in here.
Um, my config's already done that for
you, right? And say we want to revert
the Nvidia settings to a default state
is how you can do that. Default state
and then all the video settings are
default state. So, we don't have the
enable developer settings. Um, we have
to restart. If we restart, that'll be
back at on auto. Some things some things
in the video controller you have to
restart for, but um, yeah, a lot of
these scripts you have to restart for
certain things, but yeah, there are all
the default settings. Now, HTCP um,
generally like Netflix is going to work
anyway, and lots of apps that use it
work anyway. This is probably more or
less a placebo thing, but I do remember
um uh Linus Tech Tips did do a latency
test a long time ago and it did make
like a really small minimal difference
on latency. So, generally, if you're not
having any issues, I'd recommend turning
this off completely. Now, I had an
option for to pre-turn it off on AMD
graphics cards, but that got flagged by
any device. So, you guys on AMD graphics
card, you can manually do that in the
driver, which I'll show you later. But
when we restart, you'll see that this
will actually um be disabled. You have
to restart for that reg. And if you want
it back on, obviously, you can just turn
it back on. Now, um, uh, the way that
the driver works is the card won't boost
to its max all the time. So, if you
don't care about power saving and you
want your card to boost to max all the
time, I would recommend using P state
and this is only for Nvidia. So, I like
to use on and I do believe we're going
to need a restart for that one to work.
We can see with MSR Afterburn, we do
need to restart. So, I'll just restart
you guys. Now, it can be really useful
if you're just at a latency hog or
you're playing more of a CPUbound game
where GPU actually isn't boosting. So,
if you have like a 50 or 90 like me and
you're playing something like Counter
Strike in low settings, the GPU is not
going to be boosting. It's only going to
be doing GPU boost 2, not the full GPU
boost 3. So, if you don't care about pay
savings and you just want to enforce the
max boost all the time, this is a nice
optimization to do. It is sort of
preference. I'll be honest with you, not
a huge difference in latency, but it's
just something I like to do. If you're
on a laptop and you care about power
savings, like if it's like a work laptop
or like a study laptop, don't do this.
But if if it's a laptop that you always
keep plugged in, um, sure, go go for it.
Um, so now if we open up MSI After
Burner, EA state is on and we're
boosting to my max all the time. That's
something just I like to do. Um, now,
uh, HTCP obviously my capture card I
believe is turned off in the I see it's
off completely. Now it's off and that
works. So a lot of these scripts you
have to restart. Now MSI mode is
something that should always be on for
your graphics card. Some drivers and the
manufacturers sort of mess that up. So I
will show you guys something really
quick. You guys do not need this at all,
but I just want to show you that I've
automated all this stuff in a script
where you don't need is the tool here.
So, I've gone to the point with my
scripts where I just automate all this
stuff and you don't have to download
like shady stuff off the internet to to
change this stuff. As an example, this
is MSI utility, and I really don't
recommend playing with that, but I just
wanted to show you guys something
physically instead of showing you in
registry. It looks like on this driver,
they've enabled MSI mode by default,
which is great. MSI mode is the way uh
you've got legacy mode and MSI mode, the
way drivers work. MSI mode is better.
Please don't play around with this stuff
cuz you can actually brick your your
windows completely if you don't know
what you're doing. Um, and usually
drivers will enable this by default. So,
um, as an example, some I've noticed
some some drivers and a bit of messed
up. And it's the same with with the AM
AMD MSI mode won't be on that by default
for that driver. So, I'm actually going
to turn it off just to show you guys.
This will work on AMD and Nvidia cards
and Intel cards. Anything graphics, I'll
turn it off and on. So, if I reopen this
tool, needed to run it as admin. Little
stuff that goes behind the scenes. to
see now MSI mode is off, but we
obviously want that on. So, this
alternate force MSI mode on if you have
an Intel card, an AMD card, an Nvidia
card, and you don't need to worry about
third party dodgy tools like this. So,
all done in a native PowerShell script
for you. That's just a good one to do.
Just force that on just in case that uh
you know, Nvidia screw up their driver
or AMD or Intel screw up their driver
and they don't enable it by default or
they've forgotten to the driver
developers forgotten to. Should
definitely be using MSI mode for your
driver. Let's install DirectX. I do know
that MSI After Burner already installed
it. Some of you might not have installed
MSI after burner. So I'll show you guys
what that looks like. Just downloading
Regex and how we install it. This one
installs all the C++ packages which are
required for certain games and program.
I had some people in the comments of one
of my Windox videos saying, "Why are you
installing all this bloat?" This is not
bloat at all. This is the fundamental
stuff that certain programs and games
use and need. And the reason why I
install all of them so none of you guys
get an error when you try to play any
certain game. Now, yes, eight times out
of 10, a game launcher will pre-install
it for you for the require game, but
I've seen lots of apps and programs
where completely forget to do that. You
try to open the game and say, as an
example, the game's trying to use a C++
from 2012, and you get an error message,
the game won't open. You don't know why.
This will install all of them and take
care of that for you. And they're not
going to run in the background, upload
your system at all. So, just run this
and it will install all the C++
packages. The download might take a
little while. It's going to download 12
of them, and then install 12 of them.
And I used to use a uh function called
get file from web which would uh
download things a lot quicker in
PowerShell. And unfortunately I can't
use that anymore cuz for some reason it
lag by virus turtle even though there's
nothing malicious about it. So I've had
to go back to the old method of IWR. So
sometimes the downloads take a little
bit longer and it's just how it is. So
now it's just installing all the C++
packages. And guys this isn't you're
going to need it for certain apps in
games. So you might as well to get it
done. Now if I go back to uninstall
program you'll see it has installed all
12 of them for all games. So 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12. All of them ready to go.
Here's a good idea to look at changing
your resolution and refresh rate. So you
could do it here if you have an Nvidia
card. You can do it in Nvidia control
panel, but just go, you know, max out
your refresh rate. Make sure you're
running the native resolution for your
monitor. I set that there. Um, and then
hags in window mode. So I highly
recommend making sure these two are on.
Hardware accelerated GPU scheduling for
98% of games and situations you want
this on. It will boost your frames. are
some scenarios on some games which is
very far and few between where you turn
this off and you can get a little boost
in frames usually in CPU balance
situations. Generally when I do a game
video, a game config video, it's one of
the things I test. Always leave this
option on which is really handy. It's
great because it allows you to play
DirectX 111 and under games in
borderless full screen mode, which is so
nice for easy old tabing. It'll also
work for Vulcan and OpenGL as well. Now,
with DirectX12, it doesn't matter
because you can already play every game
in borderless uh full screen mode, no
problem. But this this mode will let you
play all the games essentially in
borderless windowed mode with the same
frame rate and the same latency, but
being able to alt tab a lot easier
instead of getting that little annoying
black flickering when you alt tab out of
the game. Just leave this on. Does no
harm. Because I've got the Nvidia card
plugged in right now, I will show you
the all-in-one deblo script that does
all the settings for you. So, we'll go
through that. I'm just duing so I can
start completely fresh back in and I've
completely ddued. So completely clean
the driver. I want to show you guys the
driver install and debloate settings. So
if I run this, I am not going to need to
run any of these ones at all. They're
already going to be done. So and just to
let you guys know if you DDU, you don't
have to reinstall DirectX or C++.
They'll already be done. It's not end of
the world if you run them again. It's
just not necessary if that makes sense.
So we'll run driver install and deblo
settings. So, I need to show you guys
this with um the AMD and the Intel card
as well. So, this basically just does
everything kind of like how wind sucks
did it. So, and I've done it in a way
where you have to pick your GPU driver
cuz this is really useful um because
some people are on all the cards that
don't accept newer drivers or some
people to pick and choose the driver or
as an example, some of the Nvidia
drivers as of late have been kind of
bad. So, if you wanted to manually pick
and choose and I figured like for the
the bloated driver, you guys could just
manually go and and check it and
download it. So there's no point having
a script for that cuz you can just go to
the website. So I'll go select the
driver here. And as an example, you
know, if I wanted the latest one, I'll
grab the latest, which is going to be
here. Or if I want a sort of more stable
one, and at the moment, sort of this
this driver has been good to me. I'm
going to grab this one to pick what
driver I want here. Wait for it to
finish downloading. Now, you don't need
to open the driver. You just have to
download the driver that you want. Just
download the driver that you want. Once
you've downloaded the driver that you
want, don't open it. Just close the web
browser. Press enter to continue here.
and it will say select downloaded
driver. So you get a little window that
pops up that'll ask you to select the
downloaded driver. So a little window
popped up. It should be in my download.
So I'll select the driver and I will
press open. You can also double click it
too. Double clicking works I believe as
well. If you accidentally double click
it, that's fine. So what this script is
actually doing, it is extracting the
driver, removing all the bloat,
installing the deep bloated driver,
pre-applying the Nvidia settings, um you
know the PO state, the MSI mode,
pre-applying the HTCP off, um just doing
it all. So, as an example, if you really
like a minimum clean driver like this,
it can be really easy to just automate.
You just run driver clean and then that
one and then everything is done. Just
really, really nice. This is very
similar to what you guys saw in Windox.
And when I say I'm debloating the
driver, guys, I mean I am debloating the
driver. Like it is just the driver and
the control panel and that goes the same
for the AMD and for Intel. So, there's
no need to use tool, no need to use
tools like NV Clean Install. This does
it for you. There's no need to use uh
Radian software slimmer. This does it
for you. Um, and with Intel, there's
actually no driver clean solution that I
have seen. So, I just simply bought an
Intel card and made one for the few of
you out there that are on an Intel
driver that want sort of a minimal
debloated experience on an Intel
graphics card. Okay, this is going to
open a whole bunch of stuff. But,
basically, what the script wants us to
do is set your sound resolution, refresh
rate, primary display. So, you could set
all those, you know, set your refresh
rate there or set your refresh rate in
the Nvidia control panel. The reason why
I've done it this way is if you
typically like to change your bit rate
in color, Windows will turn automatic
color management on. So this script will
actually turn it off for you after
you've applied it. So, you know, do all
that, set your sounds and stuff like
that. But I'm going to do that later on
in the guide to show you guys that. Um,
so press enter to continue and then it's
going to restart because a lot of the
settings that get applied, um,
especially in the video control panel,
HTCP state, as you saw, require restart.
So, we're just restarting to make sure
everything applied properly. All right,
we're in. So, this is the full deep
loaded driver. You guys might have seen
that in Windox. It's just the driver and
the control panel. That's all that gets
installed. Nothing else. Um, no schedule
tasks, no nothing, no rubbish. All the
driver settings are done. EO states
already done. HTCP is already off. Um,
instead of like all done for you. So,
kind of nice. So, I'm going to DDU
again. And now I'm going to plug plug in
my AMD graphics card. And I'll cover the
AMD graphics stuff. You AMD graphics
card users out there. All right, I've
dedued and I've plugged in my AMD graph.
So, we'll go to graphics and let's just
install the normal driver. So, this will
actually grabs the AMD web installer.
So, if you don't want chipset drivers
installed, you're going to have to make
sure you don't select them here. The AMD
web installer is just sort of easy
because it just will sort of grab the
latest. And so, this is the only way
that I can grab the latest. Just makes
it easier. So, if you just make sure you
click do not install cuz I don't want
that bloat on my machine at all. I just
want the the just the driver. So, I'll
go accept and install. All right. So,
I'm going to uncheck that and uncheck
that. Now, on my RX 570, I occasionally
get this stupid annoying driver timeout
thing that happens sometimes. So, if
that happens to you, it actually used to
happen on my 6TN00 XT as well. So, if
that happens to you, just give the PC a
restart. AMD drivers definitely aren't
perfect, unfortunately, but that's just
the way it is. A lot of you on some
newer cards won't have as much of an
issue of restarted, so a lot of you guys
probably won't have to do that if you
didn't have the bugs like I get
sometimes. Um, so we can do the AMD
settings. So to do the AMD settings,
we'll turn them on. This is actually
going to require a restart this one. So
just let the script do its thing. It
actually needs to open up the adrenaline
control panel to make sure notifications
get turned off the way it works in
registry. So just give it a little bit
of time. Okay, that's done. Now HTCP is
only for Nvidia. State is only for
Nvidia, but we can do MSI mode. We'll
just enforce that MSI mode is on just in
case this driver didn't have it on. And
then we'll restart. Right, we've
restarted. Let's go into the AMD control
panel. So, we can either get to the AMD
controller by going here or we can find
it from the start menu. Uh, not in
recommended. We haven't dealt with the
start menu. Um, but yeah, we'll just go
through it this way. Open up the AMD
control panel. So, all notifications are
turned off. Tuning in and performance is
turned on, ready to go, but nothing is
tuned. This is already sort of like
turned on. Um, I have been able to
automate. What else did I automate? I
was able to automate this. All the
settings are sort of done here. Um, and
I go to settings. These are all turned
off. Everything's sort of like ready to
go. Hot keys are already off.
preferences are already a lot. So,
everything's sort of like automated,
which is nice. Now, if you're on an AMD
card, um unfortunately, I can't automate
this because I get flagged by um
Defender Enviral. I'd recommend turning
off HTCP that off. Um and if your colors
look a little weird, probably come in
here, that maybe try 7200. Remember, I
really like that um on my certain
monitor, but that's more of a preference
thing. So, give that a bit of a go. Um
and, you know, up to you what you want
to do with presync obviously. Um and
that's pretty much the AMD bloated
driver. And if you wanted to overclock
in the driver, you could do it here.
Now, just keep in mind this method of
overclocking is actually unreliable and
AMD will randomly turn this off. So, I'm
going to DDU and I'm going to show you
the Dbloated driver that doesn't come
with all the rubbish that the Radeon
brings cuz the Radeon rubbish brings a
whole bunch of stuff on the machine. So,
let's DDU and then I'll show you guys
the DBLE driver. All right, we've
completely ddued. Let's go and try the
DBLO driver. Do for AMD then enter. So,
it's very similar to the process of
Nvidia. So, we'll have to go ahead and
download our driver. Do not download the
web installer. The web installer will
not work with this. Okay? You have to
actually go and get your driver. So,
select your card, whatever it may be.
Most of you are going to be on one of
these cards cuz I've got an RX 570.
Really old thing. I need to grab this
one. Don't open the driver once you've
downloaded it. Just download the driver.
That's all you need to do. Okay. Then
you can close the web browser. Press
enter to continue. Wait about 5 seconds
and a window will pop up. Okay. Now, we
select our driver. That's going to be in
the downloads folder. Click that. Click
open. It's going to do the same thing
here. It's going to extract the driver
and it's actually going to edit the JSo
files and make sure the driver gets
installed on the minimal and all the
settings done and completely debloed.
Remove all the unnecessary drivers and
the necessary programs that run in the
background. So, you just end up with
just the driver and just the control
panel. That's it. All right. So, just
press that. That's fine. Some of you
guys might not get that. A lot of you
guys on 9000 series cards, you'll
probably get an RSS serve cmd error.
That's uh the driver trying to open the
um uh recording overlay thing which
doesn't exist. So some of you guys might
get an error there. Just ignore that
error message. So same thing again. Set
your refresh rate, resolution, default
sound devices, all that stuff. And then
press enter to continue. Then it will
restart. And now we've restarted. Let's
go to the control panel. So this is the
debloated driver, guys. So the normal
driver comes with a bunch of overlay
stuff in the background. Comes with the
crash defender service, the maintenance
service, and a whole bunch of rubbish.
This just installs the driver in the
control panel. That's it. Um, it does
have one service, but you really need
that for monitor hot plug and play, but
that gets left. So, notifications are
off. We are on the minimal driver, too.
All the settings are done, as you can
see. I'm just going to change that
because I prefer colors like that. You
guys, like I said, will have to manually
turn off HTCP because I unable to
automate that. All the settings are done
in here. Everything's done in here, and
you end up with a really clean solution.
Um, I could go in a little bit more
depth showing you guys auto runs with
services and drivers and the extra stuff
that gets installed with am the the
bloated AMD driver, but I don't have
enough time to do that in this video.
Now, if you want to overclock your
graphics card with a minimum driver and
a deep loaded driver, you can either use
more clock tool, which unfortunately
isn't supported for my card, so I can't
show you guys too. Well, this is what it
looks like on a 6000 series and a 7,000
series card. You can get your min and
max frequency. You can overclock it
here. You can set your memory frequency,
voltage, GPU power, memory fast timing.
So memory fast timing on some of the
newer cards will be on and off. I just
got a 970X just to show you what it
looks like. So if you wanted to
overclock the core clock, you would just
put 100 here. That would be plus 100.
You want to overclock the memory, you
put 2600, you know, that would be plus
whatever that is. You want to make sure
you you can put fast timing to enabled
GP power, put it at 110, which will make
set the power limit. Um I would
recommend using more clock tool for
overclocking on the minimal driver
really for the fact that you can change
the memory timing level. Whereas if you
wanted to overclock with MSI after
burner, you don't have access to the
fast memory timing. Now, one thing that
I've left out of my optimization guide
is disable ulps. On AMD cards, please do
not disable ulps. This is in the
advanced folder. If you guys want to
play around with it, ulps causes massive
issues with hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling. You'll lose a lot of frames.
So, I mean, we don't have it here
because I'm on an older card. So, on
this older card, I probably would
disable it. But, um, if you're on a
newer card, 7000 series and 9,000
series, I believe, have hardware. So,
they're GPU scheduling. Please don't
disable your ps. Like I've said, I've
got a script that does that. Yeah, you
could overclock here, but you'd be
better off just using more clock tool if
you're on the minimal driver. If you're
on the full driver, you could probably
just use it in the driver, but it's not
very reliable, whereas more clock tool
is reliable. I'm going to plug in my um
Intel graphics card, my arc graphics
card, and I'll show you guys what that
will look like. Um, and it's basically
the same if you have iGPU as well, guys.
Um, this method works with the um iGP
driver. You guys might have seen in my
Winds guide, I covered the um you can
use these with IGP drivers as well,
whether you're on Intel or AMD. works
flawlessly. All right, with DDU, I've
plugged in my Intel card, but this will
be the same process if you're on iGPU.
Same with the um AMD like I showed you
before. Your graphics, and I'm going to
start with the DBloat first because when
you install the normal driver, DDU
actually doesn't get rid of a whole
bunch of rubbish that still gets
installed. Um, so I'm going to start
with the deep loaded driver first, and
I'll show you guys what the deep loaded
driver looks like first. So, we'll go
Intel. Okay, this will actually take you
to the page where just all the drivers
are, graphics drivers are, which is
really nice. So, if you're iGPU, choose
that. If you're on an R car, you choose
that. Seventh and 10 gen, choose that.
And I'll just let you guys know that
these scripts aren't supported for this
driver, unfortunately. It's a different
installer package. So, if you've got a
really really old laptop, I'm sorry,
you're sort of on your own there. If
it's sixth gen and under, you're kind of
going to have to figure out how to deblo
on your own. Um, so I've got support
from seventh gen iGPU all the way up to
the latest and then obviously the art
cards. So, we'll grab the driver. We
will not open it. It will just download
the driver. That's all we need to do.
The driver's downloaded. We'll close the
web browser. and press enter to
continue. We'll say select downloaded
driver. Once again, we'll need to go to
our downloads folder and select the
driver we've just downloaded. Open.
We'll go ahead and debloat the driver
completely. Only install the driver in
the control panel. None of the other
rubbish that comes with the with the
driver. And there's a lot of rubbish
that comes with this one. This is
probably one of the worst I think the
Intel drivers, especially because they
kind of force present mod to be on and
always run in the background, which
actually logs a fair bit of CPU and GPU
usage. The AMD and the Intel drivers
take a little bit longer to install. So,
you just have to be patient. All right,
it is done. So now we would set a
refresh rate, resolution, sound device,
default sound device, press enter to
continue, and it's going to go ahead and
restart for us. All right, we're back on
the desktop. So the deep loaded driver
is really nice on Intel, and I wish
there was a way for it to come out like
that by default. I wish I could show you
guys auto runs, all the services and
drivers that it brings, but it's a
really, really clean solution. Now,
let's open up the Intel Control Panel.
So with the Intel Control Panel, we're
actually going to have to access that
from the store. So Intel graphics
software that from the start menu,
sorry. Okay. So, go to settings,
preferences. Elementary logging is
already turned off. Ready to go.
Performance present mon is not on and
it's not logging. So, you won't see all
the sensors here. Um, then that's a
problem with the new driver. It has sort
of present mon baked in and it's always
running in the background. The tuning
actually works. So, if you wanted to
tune the card, you can do it here. Now,
if you have this, I'd recommend turning
it off. That's mainly going to be laptop
users. It kind of messes up the text a
little bit. Um, and then I decided not
to automate variable refresh rate. You
choose if you want that on or off
because when I forced it off with
registry, it sort of bugged out when
people were trying to use it to turn it
on. So, you can set that for yourself.
And there's not much to the graphics
really. Um, sync is off. If you want
that back on, you can turn it on after
this limit is off. And low latency mode
has caused major issues with some people
that are gaming and have Discord and
Spotify open. We've just left it off.
Um, and that's the sort of debloated
driver. So, now I will show you guys the
bloated driver and all the rubbish it
actually bring. I will DDU and install
the bloated driver. Just download and
install the normal driver. Breathe in
and enter in same thing again. You guys
are probably wondering why I'm
redownloading the driver. Well, my
script actually deletes the old the
download file, too. So, it kind of
cleans up after itself, which is quite
nice. So, with this script, it just
takes you to the web page. Um, there's
no way for me to sort of like
automatically download and run it. So,
you guys are going to have to just
manually run it if you want the um
loaded driver. Now, you can obviously
customize this here and remove a bunch
of rubbish, but it actually doesn't
remove everything, unfortunately. There
is still a bunch of bloat that sort of
gets installed and things that log in
the background regardless. Um, so that's
why the debloated option is really,
really nice. All right, it says boot
reboot recommended. So, we'll go ahead
and do the reboot. All right, the
bloated driver is installed. It installs
a whole bunch of rubbish. Let's do the
settings. Unfortunately, there's really
not much to the settings here. So, on I
don't believe we need to restart from
memory or the settings for this guy.
Let's see. Yeah, no, we don't need
restart for this. But the problem is
without loading, I can't automate this
one. And same thing again. Um, if you
guys recommend turning that off, change
your variable refresh rate mode. Um, how
else would I set it up? So yeah, there's
no option to disable present mon from
running in the background. It's just
constantly sitting there and running
into present mon. It's it's constantly
logging CPU usage and I believe it logs
GPU usage as well. Comes this driver
comes with a whole bunch of blow. It
actually comes with a whole whole bunch
of drivers as well. Um it comes with
that comes with that. It actually
installs these which I don't know why
like you don't even need them. I suppose
it might be for present one or something
like that. No, it's not even for present
one. You can use present one without. So
anyway, I'm going to completely wipe
this. And so that's sort of the Intel uh
you could obviously use MSI mode as well
for Intel if you wanted as well. I will
DDU and I will plug my Nvidia card back
back on my Nvidia card with the DBLO
setting. That one there. So I don't
actually need to run that one, that one,
or that one. You only need to run those
if you just install the normal driver.
So we've already done that. And I guess
before we go to the next stage of
everything in Windows, I'll probably
just show you some of these apps. The
MSI After Burner overlay. Okay. So, it's
really handy as a tool, especially if
you only have a single monitor and you
want to kind of just let's pretend like
this is a game in like full screen,
right? You could alt tab the game if you
want to see what's going on. And then
you could just like open up MS After
Burner and then tap it back into the
game. MSI After Burner will actually
hook into the game as an example. So,
this will display over your game, which
is really, really handy because it'll
tell you what the XC file is, everything
you need to know. The flip model, this
is a really bad flip model to be in. You
want to be in legacy flip, hardware
independent flip, or hardware composed.
This is actually a really bad flip model
to be in, but it makes sense. We're in
windowed mode. Windowed full screen
borderless mode is okay, but it's yeah,
window mode. Uh, it's this is OpenGL.
So, do use this overlay if you like. F10
to disable, F10 to enable, F11 to start
benchmarking, F12 to stop. Really handy
tool. Um, and you don't have to run it
like if you have it closed, it's not
going to run in the background at all.
And you know, probably now is a good
idea if you wanted to dial in your
graphics card overclock. So, I'm going
to dial in mine somewhere around here.
And then I'll press this to apply on
startup. And then yeah, the other tool I
wanted to show you guys, Nvidia profile
inspector. Pretty handy to just have if
you want to do niche things. Um, say you
want to enforce a higher frame gen model
in a game um that the Nvidia app doesn't
let you, you can do it here. You want to
force a deals model. I mean, so the
sky's is the limit. It's like the Nvidia
control panel on steroids. It's a really
nice tool that I like to use all the
time. Custom resolution utility. If I
want to display scaled resolution, uh,
it's a custom and stretched. I generally
do that. Um, we've got a video on that
as well. And then there's also scaled.
There's also scaled resolution utility
and I'll show you guys that you can
actually like delete your GPU scaled
resolutions. So these control your
display scaled resolutions and these
control your GPU scaled resolution. What
I might actually do is I might plug in
my main monitor to show you guys how
much you can make this fairly clean and
it's kind of nice. I plugged in my main
4K monitor. So typically I have some
custom resolutions that I have set up in
here and I tend to just delete
everything that I'm not using. Um I I
don't recommend you guys doing this from
a performance standpoint or anything. I
just want to show you um scout
resolution utility sort of in in action.
I've basically gone out of my way to
sort of delete everything because this
monitor doesn't let me turn off HDR at
all. So, I was able to do it that way.
And these are the resolutions I like to
benchmark games with. And this is the
resolution that I use for my Steam Deck
when I use Steam Remote Play um when I
play like a heavy GPU game and want to
stream it to my stream deck. That's kind
of nice. Uh the problem with that is uh
that's for the display scaled
resolutions and then there's a whole
bunch of other rubbish that sort of
Nvidia includes for GPU scaled reses. So
I like to sort of clean that up. This is
a kind of nice way to sort of clean all
of that up. I recommend most of you not
doing this unless you know what you're
doing, but I just sort of wanted to show
you. This will actually delete like all
the GPU scaled resolutions. Okay. And
then I'll just restart. So that applies.
Now, if you are having issues um after
doing this, like you've got a complete
black screen, plug your monitor into a
different um port and go into the CIU
folder and run reset all um and then run
restart 64 and then you'll be able to
plug it back into the normal port. Or
you can simply go to device manager and
uninstall the monitor whether it be
hidden or currently active. Um or it
should be hidden. So, that's one way,
but I've got a dedicated video on CRU so
go watch that if you get stuck. I just
wanted to show you that was kind of cool
and we kind of had a pre-installed for
scale resolution utility. So now when I
go here, basically all the GPU scaled
resolutions are gone and it's only what
I have set in display driver uh what I
have set in custom resolution utility.
So not really going to help you from a
performance standpoint, but if you're on
a OCD crazy level like me, it's kind of
really nice. Now, if you've installed
the normal Intel bloated driver and then
you wanted to try the debloated driver,
just showing you guys that it does
install some extra things that you more
than likely won't need. So I'm just
going to remove these. Unfortunately,
DDU doesn't pick these up. But it kind
of makes sense. Diddy wouldn't do these
two because there are some programs that
actually rely on these. I know for
example DS4 I believe relies on those
one of those two. Um I've actually not
seen this one before so I'm not aware of
any program that's reliant on that one.
And then um Intel's actually left that
behind as well. It's kind of annoying.
It's somehow hooked into search which is
ridiculous. Wow. That's disgusting. It's
absolutely disgusting. Oh is literally
like a spyware the default Intel driver.
I'm going to end task and retry. You
guys shouldn't have to do that. That's
just ridiculous. Okay. That's all gone.
So let's continue on with where we were.
bring up the windows. So, I got some
juicy stuff here. Some cool stuff with
Windows. Start menu. Taskbar. Clean your
start menu. Um your taskbar. Everything
sort of nice and clean. There's a
default option that'll complete. So,
like nuke everything from the uh
taskbar. Import a start layout. And then
also view it as list. So, really, really
nice and clean here. That's done. You
will have to reopen this because for it
to apply instantly, it has to restart
explorer. That's done. Uh to save time,
I won't show the default option, but it
does work. Uh start menu layouts. This
is if you ever wanted to roll back to
the uh the old style of Windows 11 start
menu layout, you could use default. If
you run this um we're currently on you
right now, but if you wanted to run the
default layout, you could use the
default layout. Um you press two and
then enter. Please restart because it
won't apply instantly or you can't even
sign out and sign in. You actually have
to restart a lot of these scripts to
work properly. Start menu shortcuts.
This creates a bunch of short the start
menu that are really handy. Okay, it'll
open up these two the two program
shortcut locations. It'll open up those
two. Just if you wanted to clean up your
start menu, it creates a folder. Start
menu shortcuts one, which is what we're
in. Start menu shortcuts 2. So there's
where all the start menu shortcuts get
put, right? So as an example, if you
don't like things in subfolders, you
could move them directly here. So it's
not in annoying subfolder, if that makes
sense, like that. So as an example with
MS After, you could simply move it here
and delete the folder. So it's just nice
and cleanly in there. Um, sometimes you
need to restart for the start menu to
refresh. Not always. Yeah, just wanted
to show you guys that you guys can
always access those folders in your
start menu. You just go to start menu
shortcuts one and then you can manage.
Uh I would recommend not touching the
default folders. It'll completely bug
out shortcut for Windows. Same with
these. I recommend not doing the default
ones. You'll bug things out. Um but you
know for third party apps like say Edge
was in it like as an example and apples
like I showed you with MS after it was
in a subfolder. That's kind of annoying.
It's very ugly for it to be in a
subfolder. Why can't it be there
directly there? There's start menu
programs one and start menu programs
two. So if you want something to run on
boot that's like third party. You can
put a shortcut in here and it will
actually run on boot. It's kind of
handy. This just gives you a little bit
more control over the start menu that
Windows usually doesn't give you which
is kind of nice. Context menu. This is a
really nice one. The context menu by
default is quite bloated in my opinion.
I really don't like this. And there's a
whole bunch of stuff that I don't use
such as like you know open in terminal
in uh including library some rubbish. Um
I like the clean option. Just sort of
cleans things up. I believe you will
need a restart for this. So if we have a
look now, now we've got this sort of
like the legacy context menu and and
without all whole all bunch of rubbish,
just a really sort of simple thing. And
it's the same with folders as well. You
right click here. It's just really
really clean. More of a personal
preference. Some of you guys might not
like that. If you guys ever curious like
what stuff does, you can just like open
it up and I I' I've actually commented
on everything that that happens and
everything can be safely reverted back
to a complete vanilla state because um
that's how I've made things. Uh so you
can safely revert back to a vanilla
state. black is really really nice.
Makes the theme black um more darker
than what you can do from a vanilla
windows. This is really really nice. Um
and then the revert option works fine
too. Sign out lock screen wallpaper
black. This is a nice one as well. Makes
the lock screen and the wallpaper just
completely black. So let's go to the
lock screen. I'm not sure if we need to
restart for that or sign out. Yes, it's
nice and black. It's really really
clean. Here's a sign in screen. Really,
really clean dark. Revert option works.
User account pictures black. This is
more of a niche one. Um but the revert
option works fine. Um you see this
little picture here. I can actually make
that dark. Uh, that was a request of one
of my viewers. So, I'll just show you
what that looks like. Now, we need to
restart for this to apply. So, here it
is. There it's all completely blacked
out. Yeah, it just sort of makes it more
of a blackout. And if you wanted to
revert it, you can revert it, but make
sure you restart after you do that.
Let's put this at the default value.
Restart. I've restarted and we are back
to normal. So, widgets. Widgets are
super annoying. Should never be turned
on. So, we can turn them off here.
Toggle them on off on and off here. If
you run my um control panel settings,
it's going to turn them off anyway. Same
with co-pilot. If you run control panel
settings, it's going to turn them off
anyway, but I figured some people would
want like a revert option. Game mode,
always recommend having this on. This
will get any UWP apps in the background
to not sort of run and go sort of like
in a sleep state. Uh, game mode is a
good thing. Leave it on. It's not one of
those things that's bugged anymore.
Like, it used to be bugged years ago for
OBS. That that's all been fixed now.
Please just always leave game mode on.
Point of precision. So, if you apply my
control panel settings, like literally
these are done. Um, but I really highly
recommend having that off. I'm going to
talk about mouse acceleration a little
bit later. But you always ideally want
to run 6 out of 11 that off and 100%
scaling in Windows. But for higher
scaling, if you're on high resolution
like me, I have a solution so we don't
get mass acceleration. But we will talk
about that later. Um, as far as like all
the other settings in here, they kind of
get done with control panel settings cuz
control panel settings will do
everything in control and the immersive
control panel completely. Um, scaling
just takes you to scaling if you wanted
to change it. Notepad settings. This is
all stuff that got included in the
Windsux guide and I thought it was kind
of cool. So I wanted to give people the
option to like revert things if they
wanted to or reapply something. So all
that's going to do here is apply not the
notepad settings. So I open notepad. I
go here. It's going to have like copilot
off by default and it'll also start a
new session because I hate how every
time if you have a bunch of windows
open. It actually happened to me before
you guys saw it. Um like it they'll stay
open all the time. Um so this is sort of
like a normal notepad behavior. Um
control panel settings. This does a lot
of stuff in the control panel, immersive
control panel, like everything. So,
after you've run this, please um restart
if you want the settings to apply. And
it is fine if you guys just want to like
speedrun through all these scripts, then
restart after that. That works too. All
right. So, if you're in a higher
resolution like me, this forces 100%
scaling and enhanced point of precision
off so people aren't getting mouse
acceleration. But if you're on a higher
resolution like me, go to system
display, turn off custom scaling, and
sign out. Sign back in. And then you can
set whatever you want your scaling to.
And then I will show you a little bit
later when it comes to mouse
acceleration in Windows and how to
counter that if you want to use higher
scaling. So I guess I better quickly
briefly show you it does so many like
everything you could possibly think of
that is like annoying it will do. So
just turn all this rubbish off and all
this rubbish off. Just everything in
here. I'm not going to go through
everything cuz the video is already
going to be like way too long. Um and
like all the immersive control panel
settings, you know, like Windows backup
and I've made it work on Microsoft
accounts too. So if you're in a
Microsoft account like this stuff is
sort of all done. Everything's off. you
know, all this rubbish is off. There's
anything that you can think of for a
power user like it is done, right? It is
done. All done. So, moving on. And
there's a revert option, too. If
something is bugs for you or well, not
bugs, but you know, you prefer a certain
feature. Um, there's always a revert
option. The sound, um, you probably
would have done that before in the
graphics option, but I've left it all
now. Um, the registry, I already did
these two. The sorry, the control panel
settings, I already did these two, but
obviously you're going to want to set
like your default mic and hide what
you're not using. Set the default
speakers and hide and hide what you're
not using. thing that I like to do. I
like to clean things up. Now, I actually
have a script that will reenable in
enhancements tab. You don't have it
available to you. Unfortunately, I
cannot show it here in action. If the
device doesn't support um enhancements
tab, this will get it back. Now, if you
are on a real tech driver on Windows 11,
you need to uninstall the real tech
driver either in the control panel
settings, then the immers or or the
device manager, restart, and then this
script will work. But for other devices,
say you have like a um sound bar,
blaster card or or um a deck or
something like that and you don't have
the enhancements tab. This script will
simply enable the enhancements tabs for
all the connected sound devices. It'll
unhide it for all of them. But
specifically, if you're on real tech and
Windows 11, you need to roll back to the
default Windows driver for it for it to
for it to work. But yeah, that'll work
for anything else. Um so device manager,
power savings, and wake. What is this
doing? So if I go some of my USB stuff,
see if I can find mouse and keyboard or
something there. These like legacy
features that are turned on by default
properties. So those are on wake is on
here like allow the computer to turn off
this. So what this script will do is
every single USB device that is
currently connected. It'll turn off wake
and power saving features like
absolutely everything that is connected.
And it will also turn them off for here
as well like the chipset type things. So
obviously we don't have chipset drivers
installed cuz we block Windows updates
from grabbing them which is beautiful.
But it'll also turn it off. So USB
basically everything the network one is
separate as well. So there's network
adapter power on wake. I'll show you
guys that in action too. So by default
these are on um we have on this well
actually I need to install the LAN
drivers before we do this. So let's do
this now. And we should have done that
earlier on in the video. I'll install
the LAN driver. This would be ideal
because we don't actually have access to
all the power saving features in there
yet. I'll go ahead and install this land
driver. That's installed now cuz I just
want to show two birds with one stone to
show you guys. So, now that I've
installed the driver, we'll have access
to energy efficient Ethernet by advanced
energy efficient Ethernet. Um here,
Gigabyte light, green Ethernet. These
are all power saving features.
Typically, if you're a power user, I
would want to turn all these off. Um
it'll also turn like off wake as well.
That's a feature I will never use. Um
and those. So, these two scripts will
take care of that. all the device
manager power like the USB ones and the
chipset ones off and it will only work
for the devices that are currently
plugged in. So if you plug in a whole
bunch of other USB devices later on you
can go and rerun it or you could go
manually do it but manually doing it
screw that when I've automated
everything. So we'll turn the network on
off then I will restart to show you guys
what sort of that looks like. We have to
restart to apply for this one. There are
a lot of scripts we have to restart to
apply. Okay, I'll show you guys what
that looks like. So, let's find some USB
devices that have it. So, that's my all
these are going to be off now. Every
single one. Quake and power saving is
off completely on every single USB
device. Every single chipset device all
off. Might just change to 225 scaling to
make your life a little bit easier to
see what I'm doing. Some of you might be
on a mobile phone. Now, what else? Oh,
the network. I need to show you guys the
network. So, network adapter power
management is off. Energy efficient
Ethernet. Energy efficient Ethernet.
Gigabyte light green Ethernet. I've
added support for Intel and uh realtech
lin but other ones like killer sorry I
wasn't able to do so power saving mode
is off I don't touch the other ones
right just the ones that are power
saving and wake is is off and I have
actually have my board has two end ports
and it actually works for anything
that's sort of plugged in at the time
it's not you can see how saving mode all
done completely it's a nightmare to
figure it out and how to automate it and
also the revert option but I figured it
out network IPv4 only this doesn't
really do anything it's just something I
like to do I'm not using anything than
IPv4 so I turn everything off. So
basically what it's going to do now this
is going to be a little bit confusing if
you only have one LAN it'll um only show
like one but cuz I have two LAN ports
it's showing two. So essentially I guess
I've got it to just show in PowerShell
for simplicity sake but I will show you
guys uh where you can manually go and
enable it I guess. So if we go here it
just turns everything off. I believe we
have to restart for the QoS one but um
everything off other than IPv4.
Everything off other than IPv4. So that
one's kind of bugged cuz we've got to
restart but yeah you guys get the point.
cuz it literally says, "Oh, no, it says
true. The is true." Interesting. Maybe
uh cuz last time I got this script to
apply it twice and maybe that's why I
was doing that. If I ran it again, it
will probably enforce it. Oh, that
worked. That one's false now. So, just
something I like to do. Not saying it's
going to help you or anything, but um
so, right buffer flushing. So, what this
is will boost your NVME performance a
little bit, but there is a small risk of
data loss if you turn have important
work running and you abruptly turn the
PC off. Most gamers, it's not a big
deal. This will turn it off on all
drives. get a nice little boo boost in
read and write. So we'll turn it off and
restart and that'll actually be off for
all drive. I've restarted. I go to all
the drives. That's a USB stick obvious
accidentally. There it is there. So turn
off right captures there. All set and
the revert option works for so if you're
not doing sort of important work all the
time and the power's not just going to
like randomly go off and you're worried
about losing it. If you're a gamer
generally speaking I I would do that cuz
you get some nice read and write boost
performance on your MVM drive. We go up
to next. So game bar. Game Bar, they
don't let you disable it anymore in
Windows. Windows 10 you can. Windows 11
you can't. So the only way to do it is
actually completely uninstall. And so
that that's what this does. This
completely uninstalls Game Bar. And I've
added support now. If you ever play
games through Xbox Game Pass, that
also'll actually work now. Whereas
before it didn't with this script. So
now it does. Now if I try to press
Windows key G, nothing happens. And Game
Bar is completely gone. All the Xbox
stuff is completely gone as well. If you
wanted to go play an Xbox Game Pass
game, that'll work flawlessly and it may
reinstall some of that stuff. The Edge
and W edge web view. This stuff is
horrible. It is completely baked into
the system now. We want to get rid of it
entirely. Look, Copilot's running web
view. We've got the full option to
uninstall Edge. But before we do that,
I'm going to install a different web
browser. Be a good idea. Go with Brave
cuz why not? Number six. Open Brave. All
the settings will be done. Adlock
already installed. Service and schedule
tasks aren't running in the background.
Settings will be done in Brave as well.
Might as well show you guys really
quick. Acceleration off. Memory save
already be on. You can have this web
browser open while you play games and
not worry. Uh, everyone says defaults.
And I might as well set it as default
cuz at this stage we're going to be
removing edge. So I might as well go
ahead and do that. Let's completely wipe
edge and you can safely revert it if
need be. This will get rid of Edge and
Web View. Now there are a few uh
programs that rely on web view. 95% of
them will reinstall Web View for you
when you install the app. So if it's
through the store, no problem. It'll
work and most other stuff will. Um, if
it's like that one app where it doesn't
reinstall web view, um, and it's not
working, there's always the option to
run the revert script and the revert
script will reinstall Edge and reinstall
web view for you. Edge is completely
gone, wiped off the face of the earth,
completely gone, and web view is not
running in the background at all. It is
completely gone. It's not baked into
anything, just like the old style of
Windows, which is how it should be. Now,
bloatware, we also remove all bloatware,
but we're keeping some things purely for
functionality. I'll show you guys really
quick. We're keeping any video encoder
extensions, paint, we're keeping photos,
we're keeping shell experiences
obviously cuz that break the shell.
We're keeping Notepad, Nvidia control
panel. Um, there's some things that I've
added for support for server and
enterprise just so it doesn't break
server and enterprise cuz believe it or
not, server gives you full control and
you can actually remove se health and
defender uh with server this way. So
obviously, you know, I didn't want to
break it for anyone with server. So this
will clean up all the bloat and the way
it's removing it is it's removing things
safely and they can always be reverted.
The deblo script will take a little
while so you just need to be patient
with it. It's going to remove all the
bloatware, the UWP bloatware, the legacy
feature bloatware, the UWP feature
bloatware, and legacy feature bloatware
aka remote desktop and one drive. At any
point you feel like it's getting stuck,
you can always check task manager.
You'll see CPU usage happen there.
That's removed everything. If you wanted
to revert some stuff, you can. So, say
you wanted the store installed cuz this
actually removes the store whereas my
wind sky doesn't cuz it going to give
you like full control. You can press
three and then enter. it'll reinstall
the store and it will actually redo the
store settings as well because when you
uninstall and reinstall the store, it
sets it to the default state. So, it's
actually reapplying the store setting.
There they are. They're done. Some of
you might not want the store. So, here's
an option to just not have the store at
all. If you want all the UWP, there's
that option there. That'll bring it
back. If you want the UWP features back,
you'll have to manually grab those
because I did make a script to bring
these back, but it completely bugged out
Windows. Windows is really weird like
that um with the features stuff. So,
here's the default list for 11 and
here's the default list for 10. And say
you wanted to bring this stuff back, you
could go uh view features. Um you could
see available features and say you
wanted steps recorder and bring it back
there. Turn it on. Now, just letting you
guys know if you do add some of this
stuff back. Sometimes Windows can be a
little bit buggy. So, you might only be
able to add one or two restart and then
the other ones. It's just the way the
Windows is. Um but basically this we're
going to get to that later. Um press
enter to continue. This uh script will
actually loop you back to the menu. Um,
install, what are we up to? Install UWP
features. So, no, we're up to uninstall
legacy features. So, that's number six.
So, the default state for 11 and the
default state for 10, right? So, 11. If
you want it back to a default set, you
can just recheck the ones that you see
there and press okay and then restart.
Obviously, same with 10 there. So, I
basically just remove everything. I just
keep this one on cuz this is dependent
on programs and games. Um, there are
other programs and games that you may
need to install this. This does not get
installed by default. And I know if you
play really old legacy games, you will
need to reinstall you will need to
install direct player cuz that won't be
on by default. Anyway, I'll press enter
here. Uh legacy features. So we'll cover
that. Okay. One drive if you really want
to you want to reinstall one drive.
Remote desktop connection if you if you
need that back and snipping tool if you
need that back on 11 and 10. Um and then
that's it. So covers that. Bloatware
script requires a restart. So we will
restart for that just to make sure what
we're seeing is accurate. There it will
say getting features ready and whatever
that that's completely normal. Windows
is actually just removing the blow. This
is completely normal. This is what
happens when you add or remove features.
You just have to wait it out. We've
restarted. So, this is more just for
like checking uh if anything got left
behind or sort of what's deployed on
your system. So, this is stuff that I've
installed. I've installed all of these.
So, that's really nice. Um and yeah,
that'll include like Windows updates and
stuff too. Just letting you guys know.
So, turn view install updates like those
those will be included in here. Blowware
legacy features check. So, that's here.
Um, and there's a bunch of extra ones
that actually get removed that aren't
they don't actually show in here as
well. So, if any of you guys are curious
of what's going on bloat, so this is
what we have here. I've left that
because that is required for certain
things. Same with um media media
encoders and stuff like that. All
debloed and nice and clean. And there is
a bunch of ones that Windows won't let
you remove anymore. Obviously, we've
reinstalled the store here, but there's
a bunch of ones that Windows won't let
you remove anymore or it will completely
breakick Windows. I used to be able to
remove CBS and CBS is actually these two
and that you can't remove CBS anymore.
You used to be able to remove it on
24H2. You cannot remove it anymore. It
just basically removes and this is just
sort of what's like left, right? You
can't really debloat anymore past this
point without severely breaking things.
Um, so obviously I don't want to
severely break things. PWP features
check. That's obviously from the menu
here. Please keep VBS script. If you
remove VBS script, you will break MSI
installed. Do not remove it. You could
remove Notepad if you wanted to. Okay.
And here's just like the list of them
all. So basically I've just kept um you
know paint um and the network drivers
they don't get touched. Same with Wi-Fi
drivers but everything else gets removed
and all the language packs will get
removed other than the ones that you
currently have installed and are
usingware task manager checks. So
obviously if you are on a um not a fresh
install you might have a bunch of stuff
running in the background that doesn't
necessarily need to be. So just come in
here and check for that and see if you
can turn it off in the app or uninstall
it if you're not using it. Um, typically
things that you have closed that are
still running here in task manager.
That's not a good idea. Look at either
completely removing the software or
getting it to not sort of run in the
background. Power plan. This imports the
ultimate power plan, but also does a
whole lot more than that. I've just used
the ultimate power plan as the name, but
I'm just enforcing all the power options
here. So, you can have a bit of a read
through here. And this actually works
for laptops as well. Now, like I said
with the PO state one, if you're a
laptop user that cares about power
saving for the battery, I would not
recommend this. But if it is a gaming
laptop, I would. So we'll turn on the
power plan. So it does a lot more than
just ultimate performance. Um, and then
I've also for OLED displays, I have set
this by default. So the display turns
off in 10 minutes of inactivity so you
don't ruin your monitor. Time resolution
is sort of a nice one. It makes driver
latency a little lower. Mouse a little
bit more snappy on the desktop. Doesn't
really help games anymore on modern
hardware. Something that I like very,
very much. Snappier mouse feeling on the
desktop. This will install a service
that will constantly run in the
background and force 0.5 and it is
applied globally to the system ever
since the great rule change. And there's
the revert option too. UAC, I really
don't like UAC and there's a bug with uh
some of the builds of Windows where if
you don't run a game as administrator,
you lose frames because of uh the
defender settings. So, I like USC off.
This is personal preference. If you go
to run something as administrator, um
you get this prompt that'll completely
remove the prompt and make everything
run as administrator. But you do need a
restart for this to apply. For isolation
should always be off. Don't listen to
what anyone says. Please always have
this off. This is one of the biggest
hogs in CPU performance in Windows. If I
had to pick one setting in Windows to
turn off, it would be memory integrity
or isolation or VBS. There's a lot of
different names for it. Now, if you you
have installed face it at some point,
even though this says it's off and
you're not using face anymore, it could
still say that it's on. Check this here.
Virtualization back security. Make sure
it is not. Now, if it is, don't worry.
My defender optimized setting will take
care of things for you. What this is
going to do is going to turn everything
off in defender other than realtime
protection just like winds. Everything
will be turned off other than realtime
protection. Now if you play valant, you
will need to come in here and turn
control flow guard back on. And I'll
show you guys that in a minute. Run the
defender optimize script. It boots us
into safe mode. It runs the script to
turn all the settings off other than
realtime protection. And we rebooted. So
if we go to security here, show you guys
that everything is done. If I start with
here, all these are off. Exploit
protection settings are off. If you play
Valerant, please turn this back on.
Otherwise, you won't be able to play
Valerant. These are all off. If you've
uninstalled Edge, this is bugged. It'll
always just look like it's on, but it's
actually off cuz Edge is uninstalled.
Smart app control is off. All
notification settings is off. Just all
the annoying stuff with Defender.
Defender still on, still running. Don't
worry, it'll still protect you. You're
just not going to get any notifications
other than the real time protection one.
If there's a shady file, it'll just pick
it up and delete it straight away.
Delete everything's off other than real
time protect. So, revert option two or
you can manually go in and turn those
settings on. It's It's up to you. Now,
auto run startup task and apps check.
This will completely nuke all schedule
tasks that are third party in Windows
and any running apps that try to run on
startup. So, for some reason, MSI After
Burn, even though I've uninstalled it,
has left this behind. So, this is
something third party here. Intel's left
some this behind. Google has left this
behind. And soft landing, I'm not sure
what that's from. Have a bit of a look
here. So, that's from probably one of
the Intel bloat, but it'll completely
nuke any startup apps and any schedule
tasks. Okay. So, if you currently have
scheduled tasks and apps set up um and
you run this, you may need to reinstall
them if you need some things to run and
boot that won't let you won't let you
change that in the actual um app itself.
For example, say you've got uh stream um
there's no way to tell Stream Deck to
boot on startup silently in the app. So,
you can just simply just reinstall it.
That's just all the startup apps, all
the runs loon apps. So, this is just the
default Windows ones. Please leave
those. This auto runs just lets you
check. It's a fairly power user tool. Be
very very careful with what you touch in
here. The script actually makes a system
restore point before you run it. Just in
case any of you out there decide to go
and delete a driver like that one, if
you delete this driver, you've
completely nuked your Windows. So, this
is just a nice way to check if there's
any anything third party that you have
on your system that you know you need to
go look at removing. Clean up will
completely wipe the temp folders.
There's two temp folders. That one's
white, one's wip. And do this clean up
here. We just finished this clean up.
So, another thing I like to do, which I
didn't include in this guide, but Windox
does it. You don't need the Windows old
folder. You don't need this folder.
People carry on like, "Oh, it's really
important for Windows Defender." No,
it's not. It's rubbish. It looks like
good old Intel decided to leave that
behind. So, remove that. Um, yeah, I
like to leave remove those. And you can
also remove that folder. Honestly, that
just gets recreated if perox is going to
get used. I like to rename my C drive to
Windows cuz why not? Makes it a little
cleaner. Like everything named. I'm
going to rename my USB stick to USB as
well. Now, we get to cover the hardware
side of things. So, if you are on higher
scaling like me, you're going to have
mouse acceleration. So, with the way
that Windows is, it's kind of limited
with what you can do, unfortunately,
with scaling. So, I'll get this up here,
and I'll get the scaling options up
here. I'll show you guys what's going
on. So, this script will allow you to
run higher scaling with no desktop
acceleration, depending on what you
choose. So, let's go to mouse polling
rate test. So, see how I've got
acceleration here. So on the left and
the right, they are not the same
numbers. They actually need to be the
same numbers for you to not have
acceleration. So the things that are
required in Windows to not have mouse
acceleration on the desktop is 6 out of
11, enhanced point of precision on, and
100% scaling. And then the mouse
acceleration is gone. Now, that's very
unpractical. As you can see here, I'm on
a 27 in 4K monitor and 100% scaling is
not an option for me. So what I'm going
to do is we're going to run higher
scaling, no Excel. I would just change
my scaling back so you guys can see what
I'm doing. What this is doing is
actually mark C's mouse fix. This will
turn enhance okay 100 won't 100 will do
what we've mentioned 100% scaling six
out of 11 this are but the other ones
will turn enhanced point of precision on
and then change the curve for enhanced
point of precision so we don't get any
acceleration on these different scaling
levels please always leave 6 out of 11
always and if you're using two to 9 make
sure you leave this on it needs to be on
but if you're using one this gets turned
on and it just uses the default window
so you can only change the mouse curve
this turned on you cannot change the
default curve in Windows just that
turned off. I really like 200 scaling on
4K. So, I'm going to press five and then
enter. We actually need to restart for
that to apply. We're back in Windows and
just letting you guys know mouse
movement recorder when you run that
script actually gets installed. Kind of
a handy tool actually gets installed
now. The shortcut on the desktop in the
start menu. So, I will show you the
mouse tab real quick. Where are we? Our
enhanced point of precision is on the
script. Turned it on. And I'll open up
uh this scaling. Now, the way it works
is it actually uses the legacy scaling.
So, this will be a lie. Ignore this. So,
if you go in here, you'll see it's set
at 200. Okay, I'll open mouse movement
recorder and enhance point precision is
on and we have no desktop mouse
acceleration, which is fantastic. So,
you have to leave enhanced point and
precision on for the options that are
other than number one. This is really
handy. Now, hear me up. Most games have
raw input on nowadays, so this isn't an
issue. But, if you're like me, I don't
like any acceleration even on the
desktop. And I do play some legacy games
that don't have raw input. So, this is
just a nice thing to do, especially if
you want to run higher scaling. Now,
let's cover some other things. Back to
hardware background polling rate cap. As
you saw there, Windows 11 added a new
feature to cap your background polling
rate to 125 Hz for all applications
unless it's your game. So, when you're
in your game, it's supposed to be
uncapped, but personally, I don't trust
Microsoft and I prefer the old way of
doing things. Windows 10 and before was
I like a complete uncapped pulling rate
even on the desktop and just for
everything. Now, there have been some
games which bugged out. I do know a
bunch of people that had issues and when
they ran this script to uncap it, it
fixed their issue in the game. So, I
don't because of that, I don't entirely
trust Microsoft. Um, and I'm going to
uncap the polling rate completely. Now,
letting you know, you guys are on a way
worse CPU. Um, it's probably not a good
thing to do cuz you might get some
stutters in games if you run a higher
polling rate, but it's sort of a power
option that I like to do. To remove the
background polling rate, we use off. So,
the default is 125 like you saw. So, one
and then enter. And we do need to
restart for this as well. I've restarted
the mouse polling rate should be
completely uncapped. I'm currently using
my old super light just at the moment,
but if I was using my OP18K, this would
say 8,000. So, we've completely uncapped
the polling rate, the mouse already
feels instantly nicer on the desktop,
much more snappier. So, I also need to
cover mouse pulling rate in general. So,
there's some interesting stuff here we
probably need to talk about. So, for
mouse optimizations, I recommend turning
off motion sync, keep the dongle close
to the mouse if it's a wireless mouse,
disable angle snapping, set the lowest
debounce time, use the maximum polling
rate. You ideally want to use the USB
port closer to the CPU. Extreme polling
rate may affect lower end of CPUs and
certain game engine frame rates. If that
happens, you can either lower your
polling rate or look at reverting that
if you're having issues. Set a
comfortable DPI. Increased DPI reduces
pixel skipping and latency. Suggested
minimal DPI to reduce pixel skipping. At
minimum 400 for 1080p, at minimum 800
for 1440p. And I mean 4K is more of a
preference, but I would recommend 1,600
for 4K. You don't want pixel skipping.
and high DPI is lower latency to a
point. Um, but pick something that's
comfortable. It's not a big deal. And
we've already discussed this about mouse
acceleration. Um, and it's not
necessarily newer games that have raw
input, this is not an issue for, but
it's just nice to not have mouse
acceleration on the desktop. That sort
of just goes over everything. Controller
overclock. This is actually using the
Battle Beavers sign drivers. So, we do
not need to disable driver signature
WHQL. So, we can actually just use this
by default. So, I will plug in my
PlayStation 4 controller and we can see
what's going on. Plugged in my
PlayStation 4 controller and ideally if
you've done that, it might be a good
idea to go into your sound devices and
just get that to not try to set itself
as defaults. If you plug it into a
different USB port, this is going to
happen again. But if you're going to
keep it in the same USB port every time
once you've done this, that won't happen
anymore. Okay, so we'll do a controller
pulling rate test before we run the
sweet stuff. You overclock the
controller. The default polling rate on
my controller be about 250. So I need to
press one one and then enter. And then
I'll do the left stick one and enter.
Defaulting to left stick. So spin the
left stick. So that's 4 milliseconds.
That's 250 Hz polling rate. That's no
good. We obviously want to get that um
overclock. Finish the test there. Let's
get the control overclocked. It also
pre-installs the polling program there
and in your start menu too. That's just
fairly handy to to use um and and check
make sure it's all working. Uh we'll run
setup. We'll go all find our controller
here. There's my controller there. I'll
go filter on device 1,000 install
service and restart. I would recommend
unplugging and reblugging the controller
just to make sure that we're still in
the green. And we are still in the
green. So that is perfect. Now we can go
do the control um controller test the
polling program. Press one and then
enter and then one and then enter. And
then I'll use a left stick. And there we
go. We are overclocked. We're at a 1000
Hz polling rate. So all the next stage.
So as long as we keep our controller
plugged into that USB port, it'll always
be over. You can check it here if you
need to. Now monitor optimization. This
is not so much for OLED displays, but if
you have an IPS or TN panel, follow the
top UFO with your um eyes and look at
setting the overdrive higher to get
lower latency. On BenQ, it's called AMA
Premium, I believe. But make sure you're
not getting any blur. So, obviously, at
the moment, I'm using my pass through
capture card so we don't have the high
high frame rate. Um, but yeah, play
around with your motor settings. Run the
highest refresh rate, enable the
overclock mode if you can, disable
adaptive brightness and variable
backlight. Turn off variable refresh
rate, adaptive sync, and G-Sync if you
really are after the lowest latency. If
you're after a more smooth game, sure,
leave them on. But if you're after the
lower latency, you want those off.
Adjust color, brightness, and sharpening
to your preference. These things can
help a lot. Please, I know I've noticed
a lot of guys that don't play with their
monitor settings. Play with your monitor
settings. There's amazing things you can
do on there to see better in game. And
yeah, if you're not on a OLED monitor,
look at maxing the overdrive without
causing overshoot or reducing motion
clarity. So, you can use the test UFO to
do that by following it with your eyes
and playing around with the monitor
settings. Crank up your overdrive.
Network buffer blade test. This is a
fairly useful test. Make sure
everything's all good with your
internet. Test your buffer blade. Worth
checking out. There's a bit of info here
on different routers that are really
good at um making Buffer BL fairly nice.
There's a PC build guide here that I
have. If you guys are looking at
upgrading, want to look at upgrading
your hardware, now's a really bad time
to be looking at um building a PC or
upgrading, but I'm very much bang for
buck price for performance. I have a
video dedicated on this. Um so yeah,
they can give you sort of like in the
right direction if you all you care
about is your frame rate, nothing else,
and saving money. But now's a really bad
time to buy. As an example, this kit was
$89 and is currently $455 USD. So
definitely even the boards have gone up
in price. Um yeah, it's pretty sad. Same
with GPUs. Even back then the GPUs were
that bad. I just had to put like text
here to try to tell you guys make sure
you only get MSRP. Um and then some
recommended peripherals here,
recommended ones just to get you guys
out of trouble if you're interested.
Let's get on to the advanced folder.
Okay guys, word of warning. The advanced
folder is for complete advanced power
users. A lot of the stuff in here can
leave you completely vulnerable. break
windows or potentially make your frame
rates and latency worse. So, please be
aware of that. Now, let's get started
with the Defender one. Defender will
give you the option to entirely switch
Defender off entirely. So, the services
and the drivers won't run at all in the
background and Smart Screen won't be
there at all. So, it will kind of
completely nuke Defender, but in a safe
way where it can be reverted. So, what
happens is it basically disables all the
settings in here. Although the settings
I have gotten it, so it will actually
leave in registry control flow guard on.
For those of you who play Valerant or
Counter-Strike faces, it'll still work
with this script. But basically, this
turns off defender without muking
defender, if that makes sense. It turns
off all the settings in here other than
control flow guard and it stops the
services and the drivers from running
and turns off smart screen. All right,
so there is an apply button. So disable
and enable default. I will disable it.
There are a lot of a lot of you out
there that run custom ISOs that
completely strip defender. This doesn't
strip defender. It just gets it to not
run in the background and it can be
safely reverted if you decide to turn it
back on. Okay, we're back in the
desktop. Now, if you were to open up the
security settings, it's completely
turned off and there are no there's no
smart screen. There's no none of the
drivers and the services are actually
running. Um, so it's a nice way to sort
of like toggle it off. So, I'll turn it
back on and show you guys what that
looks like. If you do toggle it back on,
it will turn all the default this
Defender settings back on.
All right, we're back in. If I go to
security now, all the settings will
actually be on. the default settings.
So, let's go here. On here, on here, all
on all on all on. So, obviously, if you
turn it back on, but you want to
optimize the settings where everything
is turned off other than real-time
protection, you could quite simply go
into the Windows folder and the defender
optimize. You go ahead and run that if
you wanted to keep defender on, but just
optimize the settings. All right,
firewall. This is a way if you want to
completely disable firewall. Now, I'm
obviously not recommending any of these,
but this gives you the option for full
choice and control. Or if we wanted to
disable it, we can apply that and we'll
have to restart. Restarted. Now fire
firewall will be off completely. Not
running at all. Next one. Spectra
meltdown. This is security patch for a
bunch of older CPUs and disabling it
helped performance a little bit. I
really don't recommend running this one.
This will completely disable Spectre and
meltdown. Restart would be required for
that as well. And there obviously
there's always a revert option too. Data
execution prevention. It's this one
here. You can entirely turn it off. I
don't know why you would want to turn
this off, but you can. This is just
giving power users options especially
for testing purposes. To get to that
setting, the easiest way nowadays on
Windows 11 is going system about
advanced system settings, advanced
settings. And now it will be turned off.
So if you want this one to actually
work, you'll have to disable secure
boot. And obviously don't recommend that
at all, but just letting you guys know.
File download security warning. This one
can get a little bit annoying. I'll show
you guys what that looks like. So you
want to download a file off the
internet. Go ahead and save it. Once
it's downloaded, if you write and go
properties, by default, Windows will
block the file if it wasn't made on your
machine. So, this will actually get rid
of that entirely. Sometimes it won't let
you run things. It will give you a
little prompt warning before you run it.
So, if we disable this, we're going to
have to restart for this to apply. Now,
when we download something, we won't get
that little unblock. None of the files
will be blocked by default. Let's go to
Brave and redownload it just to test. If
you right click, go properties. Now,
when you download files, they're not
blocked anymore. Mim features, we kind
of covered this with disabling memory
compression. Now we can disable them all
entirely. So what it will actually do is
disable prefetching and sort of
remembering an app to sort of reload for
next time. So it's faster. So if you
disable everything in here when you load
an app, it's going to load it like it's
loading for the first time. I have seen
on forums that there are certain games
that that has fixed frame rate issues. I
very much doubt it on most modern games
nowadays. And just letting you guys know
if you do want to disable everything in
here, it's more than likely going to
completely break indexing and search for
you in Windows and history. Just letting
you know. So to disable it, I've got the
option here to turn it off and press
enter to continue. It will take a little
while to kick in. Now, if it's not
working, you may need to restart, but
usually you can just wait about 20
seconds or so, and they all kick in and
then you can use the check option. I'll
try the check option now. And there it
is. It's all completely turned off. And
if you want it back on, I've got the
revert option to revert everything, but
keep memory compression off cuz memory
compression should never be on. I'll
open it again. We'll check it. We just
wait a little bit. Let Windows kick all
those settings in. There it is. There.
We're all back to default. Other than
memory compression is off. though worth
testing. There might be some weird games
that this might do something for. Who
knows? All right. Resizable bar force. I
like to lose this script more for
testing purposes. It's just for an
Nvidia for Nvidia cards. So with Nvidia
cards and graphics drivers, there's kind
of like a white list for resizable bar.
So usually by default it is on in BIOS,
but usually driver side uh Nvidia
decides whether they should enable it or
disable it for certain games. We can
override that for testing purposes here,
which is really handy. So the default
one is default driver whitelist per
game. Default. This is the same Nvidia
control panel settings that will also
get in that also get imported from here
and here. Just letting you guys know. So
the default settings. So if I just do
that, that's what we already have got
with the ultimate pack. Anyway, I'll
open up inspector. You scroll down here.
You see that resizable bar is um by
default disabled, but per game basis it
may be enabled or disabled. So let's as
an example look up a game here. I'll
look up Battlefield V and see how it is
enabled by default. So we can sort of
override that. We can force it on for
everything. So, if we press two and then
enter, I've got it to open inspected
just so you can confirm. There it is.
It's enabled there. Now, just letting
you guys know, some games might try to
override it. If that happens, you might
need to set it in the game profile. As
an example, I'll go to something like
Black Ops. There are some games you
might actually need to, not always, but
some games you might actually need to
override it if it's uh says disabled
here. So, that wasn't the case for Black
Ops 6, but I will show you a game that
tries to sort of like override it per
driver no matter what, even in the
global settings. So, if we go
Battlefield 6, actually Battlefield 6 is
a good example. you actually want this
on for Battlefield 6. Um whereas the
weird thing is the release driver had it
enabled by default for the game. Um but
now they're disabling it. So as an
example here in the global profile it's
on, but for per game it's disabled. So
in this case you'd probably have to go
in the game and check it and set it to
enabled. But most of the time the global
settings will work fine. U my config on
GitHub actually forces this on for
everyone u because it should be on and
it helps a lot. I'm just letting you
guys know sometimes the game profile
might try to fully override it and you
might have to go in here. But if it's
kind of grayed out like Call of Duty
was, as an example, Call of Duty Black
Ops 6, it's grayed out. It says enabled.
You don't have to worry about it. It's
only if it's like actually in um the
black text and it says disabled, then
you have to force override for for the
game. Usually, you don't have to do
that. Um and then we can actually force
it off. So, uh you know, because we
don't can't necessarily trust Nvidia's
white list, right? And the way it works,
we can actually completely force it off.
So by setting it to disabled. So this is
quite nice for testing purposes. Um as
an example, uh if we go to Battlefield,
like a game that's been quite
troublesome, Battlefield 6 with this
setting. It's obviously enabled from
when we changed it last time, but I just
want to show you guys. See how it says
disabled here? Actually, I want to show
you something where you can force
disable. So this is probably isn't the
game that I want to show you that with.
We'll show you maybe Call of Duty Black
Ops 6. So see how it says disabled here.
I've noticed sometimes some games might
not fully disable it. Um, so if that
happens, you could always just set it to
zero um, instead of doing in the global
profile. That way it actually shows. So
this is just some tools for help testing
purposes. So generally speaking, when
I'm doing a, um, game guide, I will
actually force it off in BIOS and force
it off inspector as well for the global
profile and the game profile just to
make sure when I'm testing on, off, and
default so I can figure out what the
white list is for Nvidia. Um, so number
four would just take you straight to
bias if you want to toggle off resize
will bomb on and off. Um, usually you
don't need to force it on or off in BIOS
at all. You can just do it driver side
for Nvidia. But just because I'm super
anal and when I do testing, uh, I want
to make sure that rebar is definitely
off. So, I do it in BIOS and software.
Most of you guys will just be fine doing
it in software for testing. Um, so I'm
going to put obviously back to the white
list by default because forcing
resizable bar on for globally for
everything is a very bad idea. There are
a bunch of games that will run a lot
worse with forcing resizable bar on.
That's why Nvidia have a white list. The
reason why I have this script is there's
a bunch of times that Nvidia's white
list actually get it wrong. Um, as an
example, Battlefield 6 on the game ready
driver for Battlefield 6, it was on and
then now all the newer drivers, it is
disabled and you lose frames. So, the
driver developers don't always get it
right and that's why I make scripts like
this. All right, the next script SMT
hyperthreading. So, this is mainly for
testing purposes. So, you didn't want to
use something like process lasso or
manually go into device manually go into
task manager every time and set
affinities. This script can kind of
automate it for you temporarily. So
that's how we would disable um SMT or
hyperthreading so we don't run the game
on any of the threads and only the pure
cores. This is kind of nice to do for
some games, not many games, most games
you want um threads on, but there are
some games that might run a little bit
better without threads. I know that Rust
is one of them. Escape from Tarov is
another one of them. Um there are some
weird like less legacy games like that
that don't run so well um on the
threads. So this sort of just like sort
of automates that, right? So this script
gives you two options, right? We have
off already starting and then on
startup. So, so sorry off already
running and off on startup. So, as you
can see here, Black Mesa, we're just
using that for testing purposes. Black
Mesa has all the threads on. It's called
BMS XE. If I go off, already running and
then enter. And then it will show me IDs
that are higher than 400 megaby. So, BMS
is the ID that we want to change. So,
2272 and then press enter. Then what it
will say is it's changed it. So, it's to
say this is call one, thread one, call
two, thread two, call three, thread
three. So, we can actually confirm that
in um task manager and it has done it
for us. And this is only temporary. When
we close the game, it's not going to
keep doing this. It's only sort of
temporary, if that makes sense. If we
close the game and open it again, the
threads would still be on unless we run
this script. So, this is kind of really
nice for testing purposes. Um, I found a
there's another way to do it. You can do
it on um startup. So, it's not going to
work with a web link. This is a web
link. So, if the game would let you run
without Steam, as an example, so you
know, if a game doesn't have a game
launcher, goes through a game launcher,
you could just get the XCI file and run
that or even create a shortcut to that
and then run that. You know, you could
select the it'll work if you select the
shortcut with number two. But the
problem with um like Oh, it's actually
working this time. Oh, it's probably cuz
I had to have Steam open. Okay. Before I
didn't have Steam open. I have Steam
closed. It actually won't me let me do
it that way. Yeah. See? Okay. So, this
will actually work. I can show you guys.
So, I could do it for the XC in here. Um
as long as we have Steam open and we
could do it for the shortcut XE. So I
will do it for the shortcut XC. I show
you multiple ways you can do this guys.
I'll keep steam open. So off on startup.
So we could either select the pure XE
file which is in steam steam apps common
MEA BMS. Obviously that's too much
effort. I've created a shortcut on the
desktop. DSXE. I click open. And I
forgot to open Steam. So I better make
sure I've opened Steam. That's right.
This script when you open it kills all
modern game launches. So because you can
actually get it to do it by opening um
Steam as well. So off startup. So it's
going to kill Steam there. I'll just
reopen Steam just to show you that it
works with an ex file cuz you know not
everyone's using game launchers. And
I'll show you why it kills all the game
launchers in a second because if uh we
can't do it this way or the game has
strict antiche, you can actually set it
to the game launcher instead. So let's
do it off the ex file um or the ex file
shortcut. We go open getting value.
There it is there. Okay. And we can
confirm that in task manager. Obviously
you can just do this in task manager for
some games. This is quite nice uh for
automation. Um and for games that have
strict antiche, there is another
workaround. So, let's just pretend that
Black Mesa has a a strict anti- sheet.
Um, what we can actually do is we can go
here and the script will actually when
you run um number two will actually kill
all game launchers by design. As an
example, let's pretend this is like a
game with a strict antiche and it won't
let you change the affinities for the XI
file because it's uh antiche protected.
We can do off startup as well for an
actual game launcher. So, we could find
the original Steam XI file or we could
use the Steam shortcut. I'm just going
to use the Steam shortcut. So, we're
actually going to disable SMT or
hyperthreading. So, disable the threads
for Steam itself. So, if I go find
Steam, you'll see that it is the threads
are off. Thread one, thread two, thread
three. You guys get the point. Now, when
you actually launch a game through
Steam, it's going to kind of copy what
the Steam settings are using. So, we're
not entirely setting it for the game.
We're actually just setting it for
Steam, but the game sees Steam as as
that. So, it's going to kind of like
copy what it's doing. So, as we see
here, there it is. There the threads are
off. So that's a nice way to work around
some games with a strict Andy cheat um
that won't let you uh in particularly
like manually dial this in here. Um so
yeah. Um so the other scripts that I
have here like core one thread one is
pretty much very similar to the way that
one works. So for example like Counter
Strike 2 at the moment actually performs
a lot better without um core one and
thread one. So what that looks like is
like core one thread one. For some
reason, there are some weird games that
don't um have really bad scheduling cuz
Windows tend to pin pin a lot of stuff
on core one and thread one. Um and for
some reason, there are some iffy games
that don't really utilize every all the
cores properly and turning this off of
the game helps performance. Don't ask me
why. You can test that with
Counter-Strike 2. I've confirmed it on
many systems. Um so, what I'll do is I
will open up Black Mesa and we'll do the
already running one. So, already running
is BMS. So, I type in 1 1988 and press
enter. And then call one thread one is
off. And we don't have to confirm that,
but I just wanted to show you guys how
this stuff works. It's done there. Okay.
What if we want to do it for the XC file
start up? And I will reopen Steam before
we do it cuz realistically you're better
off just doing it for the game launcher
itself. It doesn't always work. So you
guys have options and you buyers might
be playing a really old game that just
has an exi and you can go directly to
the exi. So we'll do it with the BMS XI,
not the web shortcut. Like I said
before, this is the web shortcut. We're
doing it for the direct XC file. Getting
value of it a little bit. Okay. And that
worked. As you can see, all one and
thread one is off. Great for testing
purposes. So now let's do it with Steam.
So all one thread one off off startup.
It's going to nuke any um game launches
that are running on startup that are
currently running. It will nuke them
just so this works properly. Um we
select Steam. Either the XC file or the
shortcut open. It'll turn off core one
thread one for Steam itself. Here it is
there. Call one thread one is off for
Steam. Call one thread one is off for
Steam. And now when we launch a game
through Steam, it'll actually disable
call one and thread one for any game
that we launch through Steam. There it
is. There. And to sort of reset that,
all we would have to do is simply exit
Steam. And now it would be back at a
default state. Very similar thing for
priority as well. Uh if you want to muck
around with priority, priority doesn't
really help anymore. Uh it used to help
like a decade ago on certain games. Now
it's not going to help you at all. So
let's open Black Mesa. It's normally
through Steam through the web launcher.
Okay, it's open now. What is the default
priority for Black Mesa? It is normal.
So if we want to change it to something
different, high above normal, normal,
below normal, idle. I believe some of
these don't work on Windows 11, but do
work on 10. So usually people go high.
So let's say we want to test high. Press
two. And then BMS is the XC name. So
2832 is the ID currently since the game
is launched and it says high. If I come
check in task manager, it is high.
That's a great way to test and like like
I said before, this is temporary. So
it's not going to do it like
permanently. Okay, priority again here.
So priority on startup, we'll do on
startup. Let's test the ex file itself.
And I have to open Steam for this. But
like I said, if you guys don't have a
game through Steam and it's just an ex
file game, you can do it that way. So
we'll go BMS Black Mesa. We'll pretend
this game is just not through Steam, but
just an ex file. There's running in the
background. and change it to high. Oh,
we don't need to. Sorry, we didn't need
to open the game there. Just needed to
have Steam open. Okay, so the select the
XI file, either a shortcut or the actual
actual directory itself. Okay, it says
BMS is high. So, let's just confirm that
in task manager is high. Great. Okay,
and then say we wanted to do it through
the game launcher. Don't necessarily
have to close Steam cuz number two is
going to nuke any game launchers
straight away before you can run this.
So, we want to do high. Let's select
Steam. So, you know, a game that has a
strict antiche, you want to do high
priority. The game doesn't let you
change that. This is a workaround. It
says Steemit is in high. Let's confirm
that with Task Manager. Steam is in
high. Great. We launched the game
through Steam and now it should set any
game we launch through Steam at high
priority. Mer has launched. Priority is
normal. Interesting. It looks like only
the Affinity one works through um Steam.
Although I have seen this work before.
So, and I can confirm that. So, it could
depend on the game. Uh I just chose
Black Mesa today cuz it was easy. Oh,
yeah. Um there's a nice sort of like
it's more if you didn't want to use
process lasso. I don't like process
lasso. I don't want that sort on my
machine. This process I so I can
automate this stuff and do it
permanently on on boot. I don't want any
of that running uh just for testing
purposes. I just like more of a
temporary thing. Um that's why I made
these scripts. It kind of helps. It
saves a little bit of time. Um so once
you have a lot more hands-on with them,
uh it's a lot easier. All right. NO. So
no is something that should always just
be left on. But if you're going to play
every game in Legacy Flip, there's just
no point having it on. If you're always
going to play full screen and not play
games in borderless windowed mode, or if
you're cloning with a capture card,
sometimes that can cause issues. for
actually people with AMD graphics card
um have issues with certain games with
no. So what it's essentially going to do
is it's going going to disable MO and as
well as disabling NO, it's going to
disable optimizations for windowed games
because there's no point having no on
having this on if you're going to have
no off. Um and then if you enable it, it
will enable both. So default is NO
enabled and borderless windowed
optimizations for windowed mode games.
And off is MO off and borderless
optimizations for windowed mode games
off. That's what that is. special K does
a really nice write up on swap chain
right here. You can read it if you want.
I do want to eventually do a dedicated
video on the different flip models and
stuff like that. If I go to presentation
model here, this kind of explains things
really well. So, basically the flip
models you want to be in is hardware
composed independent flip that that is
definitely using no. Um hardware
independent flip that doesn't always use
no. Um and then hardware legacy flip
which is the old style which completely
bypasses the compositor. Doesn't work on
direct x12 though. Um, and a lot of sort
of like the Counter-Strike aimers or the
mouse aimers love to to use this, but
obviously it doesn't work in DirectX.
You definitely don't want to be using a
compos, whether it be GPU or CPU compos
flip. You can check this with my MSI
After Burn overlay. You want to make
sure you're in at least one of these
three. So, MBO, the MBO script will
basically disable uh um MBO entirely and
borderless optimization for full screen
because so and it's for testing
purposes. Most of you guys shouldn't
touch this, but if you wanted to test
it, you can go off or on. Okay. And then
there's hardware legacy flip. The nine
times out of 10, you guys are going to
be in hardware composed flipped or
hardware independent flip. But you can
force hardware legacy flip in any game
that isn't DirectX12. So whether it be
Vulcan, DirectX11, DirectX 10, DirectX9,
DirectX8, or OpenGL, if you wanted
completely bypassed and compositor, some
people swear that it's a better mouse
feeling. Honestly, they patched full
screen optimizations, so to the point
where now it doesn't um the latency
doesn't matter. But on the older Windows
builds, um, full screen optimizations
added about a mill 1 millisecond extra
latency. Um, so that's why you probably
still see people recommending disable
full screen optimizations, but I don't
recommend it anymore. After Windows 10
1803 build, they patched full screen
optimization latency. The latency is
just as good and it's easier to alt tab.
So the default is full screen
optimizations are independent flipped,
right? FSO default. And then if you
wanted to force full screen exclusive,
we can do that here. Let's um use a game
that isn't DirectX12 because this won't
work on DirectX12. Just to show you
guys, I will use my MSI After Burner
overlay so we can see what flip model
we're in. So, we're in GPU copy, which
is not good at all. That is not good for
frame rate or latency if it's going to
let me. And let's see what flip model
we're in. We're in an independent flip.
So, this is good. This is a good flip
model we actually want to be in. Um, for
some reason, it looks like the menu kind
of like bugs. Yeah. Okay. We're in
independent flip. That's what we want to
be in. So, I wanted to show you this
script to force legacy flip. So, this is
what we're currently in is full screen
optimization. So, that's good. But if
you wanted to force the legacy flip, you
could simply press two, then press
enter. And then it'll say here may also
be required. You have to go to the game
XC properties, compatibility, disable
full screen optimization. Some games you
have to do this. Some games you don't.
On Windows 11, you can't just do it in
the game properties. You also have to
apply some registry keys as well. This
applies the registry keys. Let's open up
Black Mesa and see if we need to do it
for the for the XC file as well. There's
some you do, some you don't. It looks
like we don't for this. Yeah, for this
game we don't particularly have to. We
are in hardware legacy flip. So we've
completely bypassing the compositor. So
in theory, this should be the snappiest
mouse input by completely bypassing the
compositor. But alt tabbing is going to
be really horrible. Like absolutely
horrible. So I want to show you guys you
don't see legacy flip. We may have to go
to the XC file and actually go here and
we may have to do this disable foot
optimizations as well as the reg keys
that this applies. Sometimes you have to
do both and sometimes you don't. So I'll
show you as an example for a file that
you have to do both with. We'll boot up
Valley Benchmark here. This is a really
really old benchmark but a nice one.
We'll just crank the settings here.
Okay. And I'll go with system. So we've
already applied the registry keys with
that script to force legacy flip um you
know FSE as you can see here in the
sound. Um but it's not working for this
particular title and the XE file name is
Valley.exe. So I'm going to alt f4. So
for this game or this benchmark in
particular, I actually need to find
value xi and we have to actually also do
it in the compatibility tab. So disable
full screen optimizations, reopen the
valley launcher and then run. And then
it should put us in legacy flip. So say
you want to revert that ideally probably
do it to both. So I would go open find
the valley as an example. I'll turn that
off to revert it. I'll also revert this
one too. But this one doesn't require
restart this script, right? And then I
will go to advance and then we will
revert the registry keys. So, we're
going to be back in either independent
flip or full screen optimizations. So, I
will open up Black Mesa and it shouldn't
be on legacy flip anymore. We are in
independent flip. Perfect. Hopefully,
that sort of makes sense. I might do a
dedicated video on flip models one day.
Now, we can actually force hardware
compose independent flip which I thought
was pretty cool and recently discovered
this one. Um, and it seems hardware
composed independent flip actually
forces no I believe. Uh, if I am wrong,
please uh type in the comments below.
Um, so I believe it is it'll force this
one, which actually will definitely
force NO. Um, so you know, worth playing
around with if you maybe want a smooth
game. So to do this, you do need to
restart for this one. So the default is
hardware independent flip most of the
time. Some games will do hardware
compose, but uh you can actually force
hardware compose on all games by with
this method. So 01 and then enter. And
we do need restart for this one. So I'm
going to restart. While we've restarted,
we'll open up my MSI after burner
overlay. If you guys don't want to use
the MSI After Burnal overlay and you've
got another monitor, you can actually
use a tool called Presentmon. And I
can't really show you because of my pass
through capture card. This is an Intel
tool that's basically built into every
single um benchmarking software and it's
yeah, it's made by Intel and it's a
simple little like XT file. Um they do
have their own program as well, but I
don't recommend using that cuz half the
time it breaks the flip model. Um and as
you can see here at the moment, like DWM
is legacy, but if you if you were to
open a game right now, I guess I'll just
open a game just to show you guys. You
can see the flip model. Um, but I'm
going to have to unfortunately open the
game or open something in port um
windowed mode. So, you kind of need a
monitor on like your other display. So,
we're in compose GPU copy, which is
really bad. MSI After Burner showing
that, too. This is really, really bad.
So, this tool is cool, but you need a
second monitor, and you need this on
your second monitor. Um, so that's why I
made the MSI After Burner one to show
like what flip model you're in. Anyway,
let's see if hardware compose flip
works. Um, let's go to Doesn't really
matter what. We just say system here.
Run. So in theory, this should force
hardware compose flipped instead of
independent flip. So hardware compose
flip, that's forced, and that works. So
correct me if I'm wrong in the comments.
Um, but I believe this is forcing no on
at all times. I could be wrong there.
It's just kind of cool. If you want to
play around with model click technically
speaking, this should be the most
smoothest experience um for a game. Um,
and I'll show you that it will work with
Black Mesa as well. We're in the game.
We just wait for the flip model to kick
in. And yeah, hardware comp hardware
compos flip independent flip. And this
one will actually work on DirectX12 as
well. at all. It will sort of like work
on everything unless a game developer
specifically wants to override this,
which could be a thing, but nine times
out of 10, um, you should be able to
like muck around with this one. One day,
I'll do a video on the different flip
models, but for now, I just thought that
would be cool to just show you guys if
you wanted to play around with that. I'm
obviously going to revert back to the
default state here. So, I'll go back to
the default state and I will restart.
All right, next one. ULPS ultra low
power savings for AMD. If you've got a
7,000 series and a 9000 series card,
please do not use this at all. Will
cause massive hitches. So to check that,
go to system, display, and this is for
AMD users only. Go to graphics. If you
have this setting, do not use this at
all. It will cause massive hitches.
Right? If you've got an older card and
you don't have this feature, I
definitely do recommend probably turning
it off. Um, to check that, you can
actually do if you have MSI After Better
installed, you can you can see it there.
ULPS to turn it off is number two. And
then enter. Now, ignore the fact that
I've got two registry entries for GPUs.
That's simply for the fact that I did
this video and I've been hot swapping
graphics cards. If I go to MSI After
Burner now and it is on, disable ulps is
on. This won't be grayed out if you have
your AMD card plugged in. But just for
the purposes of this video, I really
don't want to hot swap cards anymore.
I'm already over it. Um, but please,
please, please do not use this one if
you have a 7,000 series or 9,000 series
AMD graphics card because you have hags
and hags is much better um than this.
and hags with this causes massive
hitches and frame rate drops. So, I'm
going to put it back to default here. I
accidentally didn't put it back to
default. Let's say you want default
number one and then enter. There we go.
How it is on, which is the default.
Disable uppulps
is not on. That's good. So, that is the
default. I recommend most of you just
leaving it like that. Now, driver WHQL
secure bit bypass. This is a fairly
dangerous one. It kind of loosens the
WHQL. So, if you wanted to sort of run
an unsigned driver on your machine, you
potentially could. So, as an example,
let's grab HID USBF. So, these are the
unsigned ones. Battle Beaver have newer
signed ones, which is what my script
goes ahead and downloads, right? But the
HID USB VF ones, the um these ones are
actually not signed. So, if you have
secure bit on, you can't actually run um
where secure boot here set on. If you
have secure bit on, you can't run
drivers that aren't signed. Um so, this
is technically like a bypass for that.
If you want to run the driver that's
unsigned on your Windows uh with secure
boot on, it's a bypass. So, I'll
download HID USBF as an example and show
you guys and plug in my controller and
show you that it just doesn't work
because these drivers are unsigned. So,
where are we? Let's clean this up a
little bit. And I need to just go here
and here. Okay, it's looks like maybe
they are using the new Battle Beaver
ones. Okay, so there's kind of like no
point for this script anymore. Um, there
looks like HID USBF are using the Battle
Beaver ones now, which is really nice.
Uh, before they sort of weren't and they
hadn't updated it. So, yeah, these are
the the signed ones, which is great. As
an example, if you did use the old HID
USBF and you have secure boot on, this
is a way you can sort of work around and
you want to run an unsigned driver. I
really don't recommend this one now that
I have the sign drivers. Um, but yeah,
off is the default and on will allow you
to run an unsigned driver with secure
boot on. They're kind of a nice thing to
do as a power user. Now, keyboard
shortcuts. This one, if you if you've
got a keyboard that's not customizable,
so default is going to be the default
setting. Keyboard shortcuts off. What
it's going to do is it hasn't run it
yet, so you have to press enter for it
to work. it will disable all keyboard
shortcuts to prevent tabbing out of a
game. Um, so every single Windows
shortcut that's built in Windows won't
work at all. Um, and then um the escape
is actually rebound to equals simply for
the fact that there are some shortcuts
that you can easily press. Um, this
script is going to be completely useless
to 99.9% of people, but I'm sure
there'll be someone out there that will
will appreciate this script. They
constantly get tabbed out of games for
spamming Windows shortcuts that alt tabs
them out. This will kind of solve that.
more of a niche one. Um, and I just saw
a problem. So, I I made a solution
basically. Okay. So, services services I
don't run at all. And it's actually
going to create a restore point for you
completely. The for the people that like
bare minimum things running in Windows,
you can use this. It will break eight
out of 10 features in Windows from
working entirely. Um, it's not going to
boost your performance. It's not going
to lower your latency because all these
services sit dormant and they're not
pinging CPU and GPU usage anyway. So, I
really don't recommend using this one.
And this script is not compatible with
Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. So if you've run
this on Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, um, go run
that restore point that was created. All
right. So if I go to recovery, uh, open
system restore. As you can see, it has
created a B before services restore
point. So if any of you idiots try to
use this on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and then
when you use the default option, it
doesn't enable the default Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth uh, drivers uh, services.
There is a before services restore point
you need to run. Please, please, please.
I don't want to get any more messages
about this script. This is an advanced
folder for advanced power users and
purely for testing purposes. If you
don't mind breaking eight out of 10
features in Windows and all you do is
play games and web browsers and you
don't care about leaving yourself
completely vulnerable, sure, it's kind
of nice. It's just more to show that you
can do it because I see a bunch of
custom ISOs that are like, look, it's
lower services. Oh my god. You can do
this on a vanilla Windows. Um, there's
nothing special about custom ISOs and
half the time they completely break
features and completely strip out
features. I've made it in a way where if
you've got a desktop machine and no
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, you can actually
quite safely turn them off and turn them
back on purely for testing purposes,
which is nice. It boots us into safe
mode and it's basically only going to
use run trusted and admin to disable a
bunch of services. This will not touch
the defender services. So, if you have
defender on, it will not touch that at
all. Okay? It's only going to touch all
the other ones. So, at the moment, I've
had the I've run the defender script
off, so we won't see any of that stuff
running. Just to show you how bare, low,
and minimum we can get the tasks running
in Windows if still being able to just
play games um and just browse the web.
But like I said, 8 out of 10 features in
Windows is going to be completely broke.
So, what do we got here? So, we got
background processes. So, Microsoft
Center always sort of runs on boot. Um
as we can see here, we've got things
pretty minimal. So, this is the best I
could do for compatibility for all
systems. If you have a bit of a read in
that script with notes, there were
things extra things that you could turn
off for services that were in 10 that
you can't no longer do on 11. And I've
had to constantly patch this one because
Windows make more and more dependency
for services nowadays. But this is sort
of like the bare minimum you can get by
open services
to show you guys whole bunch gets
disabled. So if you're unhappy with
that, you have the restore point option
or if you're on a desktop machine, the
revert option and you're not using
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, the revert option
will work fine. Okay. So, what else? The
last one. And be very, very careful with
this one. This script will even more
break your Windows because the services
is going to break a bunch of features if
you try to go into them. Right. I just
try to show you an example. Say that
just crashed right there. Try to run the
dependencies for the services of Windows
backup and it didn't work. Um, but this
script will actually disable start,
search, shell, and mobsync. So, say if
you're super insane and you wanted to
get these tasks down even lower, and
you're fine using something like
OpenShell or a different sort of UI
overlay. I mean, you can, but this is
purely for testing purposes. So, I'll go
ahead and run that. And what that will
do is that will just mute start, search,
and shell and move the files in a
different location to back them up. But
basically, being able to use anything
other than explorer is not going to be
an option anymore. There it is. there.
There's no start, there's no shell,
there's no moi sync, so moy sync won't
run in the background. And obviously,
your start menu is not going to work.
Your flyyous, okay, looks like the
fights are kind of working, but um right
clicking the taskbar tray won't work.
Probably pinning won't work. Um you
really only really have access to file
explorer by pressing Windows key. Um so
yeah, and if you wanted to revert that,
obviously the revert option works fine.
Now, this is just purely for testing
purposes to show that it can be
possible. And if you actually use
Windows 10, I believe the processes will
be down to 30 instead of 37 which is on
Windows 11 cuz there's a bunch of extra
services in um in Windows 11 compared to
10. So we got such shell back. I'll just
run that one more time just to show you
guys how minimum we can get it. And I
will show you the kind of other page in
task manager the details page. Like
let's say you didn't want to run timer
resolution like that wouldn't be that
wouldn't be there either if you didn't
want to. You can get things down pretty
low. It's not going to help performance
or latency at all. See how minimum we've
got things and say, you know, you didn't
have a didn't care about running the
control panel um in the background.
That's about as low as you can get it on
Windows 10 if you just oh, sorry, on
Windows 11 if you just wanted to play
games and um browse the web. Uh you're
completely wasting your time. It's not
going to change your frame rate. It's
not going to change your latency. These
services just sit dormant anyway. So,
the reverter options are there and
available to you if you're interested.
That's everything, guys. Thanks for
sticking me with the video. a full
comprehensive guide on being able to do
absolutely everything in Windows and
have full control and you decide how you
want things set up. I've made it very
very easy for you. This took a lot of
time and effort so I'd appreciate your
support guys for giving me a subscribe
here. I usually never ask for
subscriptions, but you guys give me a
like and subscribe on the video. I will
always be patching and keeping this
updated. Um, and I'm very very happy
with the with the updates and changes
I've made compared to what it looked
like about a year ago. So, take it easy
guys. Hope you found some of this
helpful. I'll see you guys in the next
one. Optimizing game settings and config
files can only do so much. Please
consider going through this GitHub guide
with video to cover the basic Windows
and BIOS optimizations. If hardware is
limiting your performance, please check
out my build guide for upgrade and PC
build suggestions. Make sure to update
to the latest graphics drivers or at
least the recommended version from the
game developer or game mentioned in
driver patch notes from the driver
developer. The Nvidia app with certain
settings turned on will cause frame rate
loss. Turn off optimized games and
creative applications. Turn off
automatically optimized newly added
games and apps. Avoid using game filters
and statistics. As far as AMD drivers,
I've not seen any tests, so just be
cautious. Game launcher should have
logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, and cloud sync turned off.
Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play. Any monitoring or RGB
program causes frame rate loss, even
closed. This includes Asus Armory Crate,
MSI Gigabyte, Azro driver utilities,
NZXD CAM, Corsair IQ, Lee and Lee,
Lconnect, and etc. Uninstall if
possible. Services and drivers for these
apps still run even if the apps are
closed. GPUZ hardware info, MSI After
Burner, and etc. can cause frame rate
problems when logging GPU power. Close
these out when gaming or turn off GPU
power logging in the settings. If you
like your Windows game, BIOS hardware or
stream setup fresh, tuned, and
optimized, support me and book my PC
service. All links can be found in the
description below.